It's [music] all about the tech sector
within the equity market.
>> We might be a little bit overbought
here.
>> You have very strong sort of earnings
fundamentals underpinning things.
>> Everyone is looking to make sure that
this growth is still as strong as it has
been.
>> The outlook still is optimistic.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance right now coming into
Thursday. The vision grows. [music] A
divided Federal Reserve just about
holding onto an easing bias as failure
to find a diplomatic solution with Iran
is keeping crude elevated. Performance
[music] of some of the world's biggest
companies beginning to splinter. Meta
slides. Alphabet climbs. Let's just put
this in perspective. $725
billion. That is how much the four
hyperscalers that announced earnings
after the bell, the three with Meta,
announced after the earnings for this
particular year for CapEx X. How much is
this justified? And that's where the
splintering comes into play. For
Alphabet, they're crushing it in terms
of the acceleration of their revenues.
People say, [music] "Great." For Meta,
it's increasing because component costs
are increasing. And what they're going
to do with it? Trust us. Not exactly
flying in markets right now.
>> Will this tech story keep this equity
market supported with this developing
[music] in the commodity market? This
from Axios this morning. And for once,
the Axios story is not bullish.
President Trump slated to receive a
briefing on new plans for potential
military action in Iran. Wartime highs
on crude just off those levels this
morning. Brent pulling back from 120.
[music] Brent this morning around 160.
>> really need to understand what options
are going to be presented to the
president and then what decision he
makes. At the moment we've seen from
this president is he's willing to keep
the blockade, have this impasse. No need
to escalate. No need to de-escalate. If
[music] leverage is what the Iranians
hold in the Strait of Hormuz,
potentially that is what the president
could decide when it comes [music] to an
escalation. Maybe not striking targets
in Iran, but maybe the navy has to come
through and start escorting tankers
through because can [music] they live
with these oil prices? Look at where
gasoline is this morning in California.
North of $6 a gallon.
>> get some soothing words as we get closer
to the opening bell? Maybe. But bear in
mind this. April 17th, [music]
the president came out and said the
Strait of Hormuz was reopening. Over the
weekend it didn't. Ever since we have
not had a down day for crude ever since
then.
>> [music]
>> This market is really snapped into show
me mode. The hopeium no longer bites in
quite the same way.
>> Exactly. Verbal verbal intervention
doesn't hold the same [music] kind of
punch. And right now this is coming at a
time where economies are not yet
breaking. So, you've got fiscal and
corporate stimulus, if you will, at the
same time the oil prices are going
higher. And suddenly, [music]
we're talking about a new kind of
tightening of financial conditions. A
40% chance [music] of a rate hike by
next March by the Federal Reserve. All
of this comes together with this real
tension. How long can risk assets keep
rallying?
>> Let's count through some of the levels
we're at this morning in the bond
market. Country to country starting with
the US. Near the highs of the year
[music] on a 10-year yield. In Germany,
back to the 2011 highs. In the UK,
numbers we haven't seen since around
2008. Over in Japan, the 1990s. [music]
We're back to March again. We're hitting
those kind of levels once more.
>> We're above 2 and 1/2% in Japan. Just a
couple of years ago we were at zero. The
idea of 2 and 1/2% in Japan is like
getting 10% in a lot of other places
considering that they own the bond
market and this has not been a market
for a very long time. Does this reset
[music] expectations? And again, I go
back to what is the exit strategy? If we
have higher oil prices, but we don't
have an economy that is torpedoing. And
if anything, governments are saying,
"We'll support you, consumer, because
politically it is going to be disastrous
for us not to do this." That is why
you're getting a real hesitancy from
buyers of the long end. Exactly what
levels are going to accept?
>> Japan's Finance Ministry threatening to
intervene in the [music] FX market
because of the moves we've seen in the
Japanese yen. Later this morning,
program note for you. 9:30 Eastern time.
We'll extend the program. [music] We'll
bring you the news conference with
Christine Lagarde of the ECB. After
that, we'll catch up with this guy right
here, the NEC director [music] Kevin
Hassett, following quite the
announcement from the chairman of the
Federal Reserve just yesterday in the
news conference. He's stepping aside for
Kevin Warsh. But, and it's a big butt,
[music] he's sticking around. He's
staying on the board. He wants to see
the process concluded with full
transparency, the process of legal
challenges. And he said that that has
been an attack on the institution of the
Federal Reserve. I'm sure there'll be
some harsh words.
We heard from Secretary Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent yesterday
talking about how this was an insult
with respect to his staying on. A real
question about what the administration's
response is going to be.
>> Well, J Powell yesterday, and [music]
great job, guys. I watched the whole Fed
programming. He said he's going to keep
a low profile. But at the same time, he
had the stature of Fed chair. So, how
[music] do you keep a low profile? We
didn't just hear from the Treasury
Secretary. We also heard from the
President of the United States. A brief
[music]
truth for the president, but he said he
wants to stay at the Fed because he
can't get a job anywhere else.
>> that was a lightweight truth.
A lightweight social media post. That
was nothing compared to what I was
expecting to see from the president
after that announcement yesterday. I
didn't think it was much at all. To me,
that was almost an endorsement of his
staying on. I mean, not you're fired.
This is war. We're going to, you know,
we're going to go to the Strait and hash
this out. I mean, truly, that's the kind
of stuff I was expecting.
>> tame stuff. Yields to lower this morning
by [music] three basis points. 10s
around 440. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Julian Emanuel of Evercore
with [music] markets whipsawed by
earnings. Victoria Coates of the
Heritage Foundation as the US-Iran
standoff sends crude surging. And Neil
Dutta of RennMac with Fed chair J Powell
passing the torch, kind of. We begin
this hour with stocks wavering after
crude surged and mixed tech earnings
have failed to spark a rally. Julian
Emanuel of Evercore writing the base
case remains the tech-led bull to 7750.
The independence of stocks and the
economy from malign triple-digit crude
will not be sustainable. Julian joined
us now for more. Julian, good morning.
Good morning.
>> you, sir. Are we reaching a tipping
point? Well, is the what you just put up
is kind of a contradictory statement. We
think that the bull market is predicated
on number one earnings, which have been
off the charts. Absolutely off the
charts. But but you are at this point
where the malign effects of oil
will not be ignored if this goes on much
longer.
>> go to the last 24 hours. What do you
believe is more consequential? The move
in crude, the earnings we got, or what
we heard and saw from the Federal
Reserve?
Yes, all of them. You can't pick one or
three? Uh
I would have to say that earnings. Look,
again, and and we've been very adamant
about it. We've been adamant throughout
the entirety of this 3 and 1/2 year bull
market run is that if you look at a
multi-decade chart, earnings and stock
prices have a very very close
correlation.
And it is no surprise if you think back
30 days ago where we were in the depths,
you know, despair.
But yet you're still in an environment
where the market has ripped higher
as crude has ripped higher as yields, as
you pointed out, have ripped higher.
Why? Because earnings are ripping
higher.
>> This is the big question. Lisa talked
about the bond market. Yields are back
to where they were and through those
levels in some cases at the end of
March. Anne Marie went for the reasons
that we've got through crude back to
wartime highs at least briefly in the
last 24 hours. All of those stories have
gone back to the end of March with the
exception of equities, which have had a
move of 13% off the lows of March. Do
you really believe that story is
insulated because of earnings from
what's happening elsewhere in other
asset classes? It it it in the medium
term, it cannot be. In the near term, it
is again, cuz going back to, you know,
the call we made at the end of last
month is that the hedging that we had
seen in the markets was unlike anything
that we had seen over the last 30 plus
years of doing this. And so, almost by
default, unless the world was ending in
that moment, you were going to get the
degree of rally which you got, which by
a lot of measures was as strong as what
started this generational bull market in
August of 1982. But again, just going
back to where the situation is, there's
an optionality component here to at some
point triple-digit oil is going to cause
the economy to slow and is going to
cause earnings to slow with it. We just,
you know, our work has said the
four-month window is really really sort
of the time looking at past spikes where
that comes into play.
We're getting close.
Except for tech. Because ultimately
that's what everyone's been saying.
Except for AI spending. And that would
be the one thing that ultimately keeps
going because ultimately, as my son told
me last night, AI beats humans and we
can all just rely on our chatbots more
than we can our mothers.
I was fantastic. I'm really [laughter]
essential this morning. Please watch
out. But I am curious about from your
perspective, at what point is this CapEx
plan unsustainable if it's just to pay
for higher and higher commodity costs
that are the inputs to what they're
trying to build? Well,
that is a challenge disaggregating. And
and that's why,
you know, one of the companies that
reported last night is softer because
you can't disaggregate, you know, what
is higher input costs and what is, you
know, organically higher CapEx
intentions. And that is, you know, an
issue. But look, again, all of this is
predicated on the fact that that
you can have a continuation
of this build-out provided two things.
Number one, that conditions in the
economy and the credit markets remain
benign, which they clearly are despite
triple-digit oil right now.
And this idea that there is an eventual
payback window for the AI build-out. And
again, the the evidence is that there is
adoption going on. The evidence is is
that it is driving revenues and it is
saving costs.
Is it as fast as the market would have
expected it to be? No, but because the
economy is as benign as it is away from
oil, there is patience. So, I want to
come up with another expression than
than boiling the frog because Peter's
coming after me, but I'm curious also
about at what point you hit a tipping
point in terms of you have CAPEX that
keeps increasing because it feels
existential and independent. You have
yields that are going up because people
can keep spending, which allows
inflation to keep going through the
system. You have enough resilience to
keep those yields high. At what point do
the yields become the breaker to this
entire cycle? Well,
and that's why this is a challenging
environment because as we've seen over
the last several months, yields are
moving higher in lockstep with the price
of crude oil. And so, that it really
points to the fact that this is there a
time optionality to all of this. My
answer to that would be is that you
know, until the economy shows signs of
cracking, this is sustainable, okay?
There are no signs of cracking right
now. Remember a couple months ago we had
credit angst all swept aside. It was a
it was a as an issue that we know now
has been contained. Uh
but essentially what you're looking for
is signs of stress and there aren't any
at the moment. How many months can we
live with triple digit crude?
Uh our work has shown that sort of month
four is is where things get dicey.
Again, it's it's also the amplitude. Uh
in our mind, if you break the prior
March uh the beginning of the cycle high
around 120 on WTI in a material way,
that will accelerate the timeline. Uh
but otherwise, we're looking at sort of
Independence Day, July 4th as kind of a
line in the sand.
>> Is $99 in the futures for for July?
That's that's triple digits. It is
you are essentially at the which is why
it's incumbent for the prices to find a
way, whatever that way is, to moderate
between now and then. Judian, just going
to say you're going to stick with us
someplace to side to break down some of
these tectonics just a little bit more.
Judian Emmanuel there of Evercore for
your equity market this morning and good
morning to you. Just about positive by
0.2% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey,
Bonnie. Hey, good morning, John.
President Trump defending the US
blockade of Iranian ports saying it's
more effective than bombing the country.
Trump rejecting the latest Iranian
proposal to open the Strait of Hormuz
and lift the blockade until concerns
about its nuclear program are addressed.
Axios reporting the president will
receive a new briefing on the situation
today.
Mag 7 earnings in full swing. Shares of
Alphabet are rising after the tech giant
reported solid growth at its cloud
computing unit. Amazon also beating on
key metrics. [music] Meta though falling
after issuing a CAPEX forecast that was
higher than investors [music] expected.
The Federal Reserve holding rates steady
in J. Powell's final rate decision as
chair. Four policy makers dissenting
[music]
against the decision with three opposing
in particular the language suggesting
the Fed will eventually resume rate
[music] cuts. One, Governor Stephen
Myron, preferring a quarter point rate
cut this time. And that is your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Hey, Bonnie.
Thank you. Good to have you. More Bonnie
Quinn a little bit later this hour. Up
next on the program, wrapping up a
monster day of tech tectonics.
The three critical uh data center
businesses, the hyperscaler businesses,
exceeded expectations. They're all still
accelerating. Meta's not even in the top
10, I would say, in terms of its
frontier model. We'll talk more about
Meta in just a moment. Stefan Slowinski
of BNP Paribas joins us next live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Coming up a little bit later, two
central bank decisions. 7:00 a.m.
Eastern time, we'll hear from the Bank
of England. Later at 8:15, we'll hear
from the ECB. Then we've got economic
data at 8:30 Eastern time, jobless
claims and a whole lot more. Then after
the close, the other big tech titan,
Apple, reporting after the close a
little bit later.
>> [music]
>> Does it matter? I guess that this is the
real question. How much does the
backward-looking data for Apple matter
and how much is it going to be the show
of who's taking over and what they're
planning to do? Is there going to be
some sort of CAPEX plan that's going to
be announced to talk about exactly how
they're going to bring AI into the
iPhone? You brought [music] up the
really important question for Meta.
Meta's increased CAPEX. Are they doing
that because there's more things to buy
or the things to buy just got more
expensive? We don't know. And
ultimately, we heard this tone also from
Microsoft. Others also increased their
CAPEX plan partly because the cost is
just going up and we've heard this from
everyone. So, at what point are they
actually getting more for their
increased cost [music] or they just
simply having to pay more and then is
that something that's suggestive for
people? AI at what cost? Nasdaq features
this morning positive by 0.2% on the S&P
500 up a little more than a tenth of 1%.
Under Savannah's this morning, wrapping
up a monster day of tech tectonics.
The three critical uh data center
businesses, the hyperscaler businesses,
exceeded expectations. They're all still
accelerating. That's a very good sign in
terms of the progress of AI. Meta's not
even in the top 10, I would say, in
terms of its frontier model. Investors
are going to expect them to either calm
down on the CAPEX or reduce enough OPEX
to allow margins not to deep be
degraded. So, Hester is this morning.
Big tech earnings kicking off with
Alphabet surging on high demand for its
cloud and AI platforms while Meta's
CAPEX forecast is fueling investor
doubts. Joining us now to discuss is
Stefan Slowinski of BNP Paribas Exane.
Stefan, welcome to the program. I want
to talk about Meta exclusively just
first off. They've raised their CAPEX.
Lisa and I were just talking about it.
Are they doing that because there's more
things to buy or the things they wanted
to buy just got more expensive?
Yeah, good morning. I think it's mostly
inflation. So, you see Meta raising
CAPEX by 10 billion and talking about
the component price inflation. Microsoft
talking about close to 200 billion of
CAPEX this calendar year and they're
highlighting that 25 billion of that is
just coming from that component price
inflation. So, I think that is one of
the flies in the ointment today. Uh
those were four great set of numbers
yesterday especially on on the top line,
but also margins expanding for all four
by 125 basis points on average. Um but
CAPEX keeps going up and and
increasingly that's being driven by
inflation. And some companies are being
punished for it, others aren't. Meta's
being punished for it. It's down by 8%
in the premarket. Do you think, Stefan,
that's something they just continue to
stomach?
I think when you look at the reactions
today, what you're seeing from Google
and Amazon is they're chip companies
now. Um and so, one of the the big
trades of the past year and the past 3
years has really been hardware over
software. And so, when you look at
Amazon, when you look at Google and
their proprietary semiconductors, you
know, Inferentia and Trainium, uh you
know, they're going to be increasingly
selling those to enterprises and to
third parties. So, they're in a way a
beneficiary of that. Uh Microsoft and
Meta are behind on their proprietary
silicon and so, they have to stomach
those costs a bit more than than the
other two. How much Stefan do we see the
market starting to say we're going to go
with the promises of Amazon and Alphabet
because they do go beyond just the chip
production, obviously, and they're
direct competitors with Microsoft in
particular. Is Microsoft truly falling
behind?
I think when you look at the results
last night for Microsoft, Amazon,
Google, the big hyperscalers, they did
all see growth accelerate
um in the quarter. Interestingly, when
you look at the quarter, Google added
the most incremental revenue, even more
than Amazon and Microsoft. So, they're
officially kind of neck and neck now
with the big two. Um but what I think
you're also seeing is not only are all
three of them benefiting from enterprise
cloud demand, but their core businesses
are benefiting as well. So, Google
search going from 17 to 19% growth. It
was 10% just a year ago. Microsoft, the
big concern was Microsoft 365 commercial
cloud, the kind of office business that
would be disrupted by Anthropic, but
growth actually accelerated to 15% and
we're seeing Copilot demand finally
boom. And even Amazon's core business is
still doing low double-digit growth. So,
that's reassuring for all of them that
they're monetizing AI not just in
enterprise cloud demand, but in their
core businesses. And finally, I think
the other thing that's really positive
is it's not just renting out GPU
infrastructure to model companies. We're
starting to see that cloud monetization
broaden out to other products,
especially software products, databases,
data platforms. Um and and that's
important because those are higher
margin businesses. That's what drove
high margins in cloud 1.0. And the
companies are increasingly saying
they're seeing signs that that will help
drive returns in cloud 2.0 in this GPU
cloud buildout. Stefan, how long before
CAPEX becomes a nice to have versus a
need to have?
Well, right now it's still a need to
have. You know, as you pointed out, we
were at probably 725 billion now between
the big four in CAPEX this year. Last
night Google said next year, '27 will be
up significantly or meaningfully. So,
we're going to blow through a trillion
dollars probably next year. Um
thankfully, we are seeing the uses
increase. Thankfully, we are seeing the
monetization. Um but as we're seeing in
in in Microsoft a bit today and
certainly Meta,
uh if you don't have a clear path to
monetizing that CapEx via multiple
routes, via new AI businesses, via your
core business, maybe via hardware and
other other capabilities, the market's
going to increasingly scrutinize that
CapEx spend, even if your core business
is doing very well, as it is in Meta's
case, growing 33%. Stefan, it's good to
see you. Thank you, sir. Meta down by
close to 9%. The story of Alphabet, the
turnaround there in the last 12 months,
absolutely phenomenal. Meaningful
acceleration of growth, crushing
estimates. CapEx, $185 billion
for this year, that's double last year.
The turnaround here, imagine me saying
to you last year when people thought
they were in some kind of existential
moment they'd come out with numbers like
this, 12 months later. Yeah, and they're
winning on search. They're beating
actually at ChatGPT. They're beating the
open AI product in a material way and
saying not only does it not replace
search, it enhances it and brings more
viewers in. Their earnings per share was
$5.11 versus the estimate of $2.62. That
gives you a sense of the scope of this
speech.
>> Jillian, stay with us. Jillian, let's go
through some of these numbers, these
results. Things can move really quickly
in this sector. The last year's
demonstrated that, but are we beginning
to reveal, expose the winners and the
losers of this sector? I think there's
two lessons here. Number one,
we have to adjust our thinking. We used
to be that billions impressed us. Now
it's trillions, okay? Because
cumulatively and our semis analyst
expects the CapEx number to be 1.1
trillion in 2027.
Um, and and
the other thing is that the laws of size
are just so evident, cuz if if you heard
your last guest, basically the the
spoils are accruing to the companies
that now do other things well away from
their original mandate so that they are
a total enclosed ecosystems of AI, and
you only do that with size that is
evocative of the concept of trillions.
Are any of these going to become the
next AOL?
I mean, are any of them going to become
rendered obsolete on some capacity as
the world moves on and some of the
behemoths win share?
It it will happen at some point, but
frankly, I'd prefer that doesn't happen.
As a a very young trader, I was sitting
in in the proprietary trading room when
the AOL Time Warner merger was announced
in the beginning of 2000, and all the
gray-haired vets looked at each other
and said, "Uh-oh, I think this is over
now." And of course, that was the top of
the Y2K bubble. So, let's hope it
doesn't happen in AOL style. You gave
the sense that this feels a little bit
like 1999. Are we in February? Are we in
December?
Are we December 31st? I mean, kind of
where are we in 1999?
>> So, the the swing factor
>> Jillian. Be precise.
>> [laughter]
>> My son say I won't go there. Well, I
will tell you I had a number of clients
last night email me email me asking me
to pick a day. It again, it goes back to
the economy's strength, which is
inextricably linked
to the amount of stress that's going to
be caused by the elevated oil price. You
remember, 1999,
the Fed hiked 175 basis points to stop
the bubble, which they did ultimately in
in Y2K.
The question is, is oil going to have
the same influence? The Fed I I don't
care what the implied probabilities are.
The Fed is not hiking this year, okay?
That that's again, we said that a number
of weeks ago, we'll say that now. They
may not cut, and and frankly, at this
point, you'd rather not see them cut
because if you're going to get a cut
right now, it's because the economy is
weakening. But the point here is is that
we we are in a time where if oil is the
handicapping feature, you could have a
sudden rollover, but again, we're not
there. Jillian, it's good to see you.
>> [music]
>> Thanks for joining us this morning. What
a 24 hours in financial markets. Jillian
Emmanuel there of Evercore. The latest
out of Iran, according to state TV,
we're waiting for a statement from the
supreme leader, someone we've not seen
or heard much from over the past 2
months. That from state TV just moments
ago. When we get that statement, those
headlines, [music]
we'll bring it to you. Up next, Victoria
Coates of the Heritage Foundation as
President Trump reportedly weighs new
options in Iran.
Q1 felt like a lifetime. April, Blinken,
you missed it. Final trading day of
April, up on the month on the S&P 500,
higher by more than 9% potentially on
the S&P. The biggest monthly gain going
back to November 2020, and we saw some
big monthly gains back in that [music]
year. Equity futures this morning up by
2/10 on the S&P 500, on the Nasdaq up by
0.3.
The S&P totally unchanged just yesterday
in the face of these moves in the
commodity market, which is crazy.
Eight days of [music] gains for Brent
into today. We'll see if we make it day
nine. We're pulling back this morning to
116.50. Over those eight days, higher by
30% [music]
over that period. And you have seen it
bite in certain areas. At the same time,
the technology trade has just
overwhelmed some of the oil concerns.
Semis with the best month as you're
mentioning since 2000. [music] Going
forward though, I think that what Julian
Emmanuel was just talking about is the
key point. We're going to hit a breaking
point. So, Kaiser was talking about this
as well. And when you start seeing
prices stay at these levels for even
just a couple of more weeks, we might
hit that [music] point.
>> Getting closer. We're not there yet.
We're pulling back on crude just for
now. Let's turn to the bond market.
There we've seen some
>> [music]
>> pretty interesting moves on 10s and 30s,
the highest close of the year so far in
yesterday's session. Pulling back from
those levels, 4.97 on 30s after having a
little look at 5%.
>> [music]
>> The 10-year was 3.440, now back down to
4.3947.
We hit 5% on the 30-year, and this came
as global bond yields crept higher in
the face of the oil price shock and
potentially central banks led by the
Federal Reserve that are not thinking of
rate cuts anymore and frankly seeing
actually a chance potentially of a rate
hike even though Julian Emmanuel just
said there's no chance in hell. And we
also are getting that sense that they're
not even willing to move to a neutral
position. Nonetheless, this clearly is a
quagmire for the central banks, and
clearly it's being reflected among the
bond traders.
>> And these are obvious headwinds for
markets, but the earnings story
>> [music]
>> has been so powerful in certain parts of
the stock market in America. Take this
one, just dropped, Caterpillar. First
quarter adjusted EPS, 5.54, [music]
the estimate 4.63.
This is the industrial renaissance. You
need this equipment in order to build
stuff, and guess what? Everyone's
building stuff. You also saw Ford beat
expectations yesterday. People are
buying cars. Every cylinder of the
economy was set to actually outperform,
and so suddenly you're seeing these
earnings come through in a bold way.
You're talking about how the earnings
came in better than expected. Machinery,
power, and energy revenue came in at
$16.5 billion. That is more than a
billion dollars more than expected to
give you a sense of where some of these
gains are coming from. Few headlines on
a walk through here, just away from
Caterpillar and the earnings story. I
mentioned we were waiting for a
statement from the supreme leader in
Iran. Those headlines just slowly
crossing the Bloomberg terminal. AM H
will just say So, he's saying that
there's a new chapter taking shape in
the Gulf when it comes to the Strait of
Hormuz, and that new chapter obviously
is that the Iranians have full control
over it. They're charging tolls and
they're going after Western vessels. Uh,
still waiting to hear from him more. He
says,
uh, this is he's giving this statement
on Persian Gulf Day, which they do every
year, but Persian Gulf Day
>> [music]
>> is to commemorate the Iranians pushing
out the Portuguese in the 1600s [music]
from the Strait of Hormuz.
>> We'll come back to that story in just a
moment when we have more. As we count it
down to the open and bell, we're about 3
hours away. Lots of single names and
morning movers for you. Yohara has more.
Hi, Yohara. Hi, John. We start with big
tech, of course, and it all came down to
who's seeing the payoff from AI.
Alphabet clearly is. Shares are up 6.7%
after a clear beat due to cloud growth
accelerating. And Amazon shares also up
after AWS posted [music] its fastest
growth in years, helping investors look
past heavier spending. Now we get to the
laggards. Microsoft down 1.5% after
Azure just failed to impress investors,
especially stacked up against [music]
Google and AWS. And at Meta, you're
seeing a revolt from investors due to
higher spending. So, those shares down
8.7%. [music]
Turning to Qualcomm, those shares
soaring 12% in the pre-market after CEO
Cristiano Amon teased [music]
that they will be shipping custom AI
chips to an undisclosed
hyperscaler later this year, a sign
they're getting into the red-hot AI data
center market. That helping investors
look past the softer outlook due to
higher memory costs. And turning to
another chipmaker, Intel, those shares
are up 3% in the pre-market after a 12%
surge yesterday that brought the stock
to a record high and seemingly inspired
President [music] Trump to tout the
government's stake in that company,
posting on Truth Truth Social that he's
very proud for making that investment
and making the US over $30 in the last
90 days because of this rally. [music]
John. Yohara, thank you. Thank you very
much. On our radar this morning, crude
hovering near wartime highs on fears the
US is considering new military options
in Iran. Axios reporting this morning
that the president will receive a
briefing from the CENTCOM commander
after rejecting Tehran's latest deal.
Elsewhere, the White House opposing a
plan by Anthropic to expand access to
its Mythos AI model. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg that US officials are
concerned the company lacks the
computing power to guarantee security.
And finally, the Trump administration
blasting J. Powell's decision to stay on
at the Fed after his term as chair is
complete.
It's highly unusual what Chair Powell
did. This is a a violation of all
Federal Reserve norms and it is an
insult to Kevin Warsh, Mickey Bowman,
and Chris Waller
to think that these other Republican
nominees do not care about the
institution of the Fed. The president
writing on Truth Social, quote, "Powell
wants to stay at the Fed because he
can't get a job anywhere else." I love
that he mentions the Republican
nominees. Guess who else is a Republican
nominee? J. Powell, who actually was
nominated by President Trump. So, I
mean, in fairness, okay, on the other
hand, the fact that President Trump
didn't come out more severely against J.
Powell was interesting. I was expecting
lawsuits. I was expecting a standoff. I
was expecting potentially something
further. Maybe people are saying this is
going to give Kevin Warsh a bit of a
reprieve actually in terms of his next
steps.
>> to spend some more time on this. We've
got the whole morning to go through
this. I think we've all got thoughts on
what took place in the last 24 hours.
Stay tuned for that. We'll also catch up
with Neil Dutta a little bit later as
well, I believe. Let's get to crude
hovering near 4-year highs with
President Trump reportedly gearing up
for a military briefing on Iran that
could open the door for fresh
escalations. Jonathan Tamari of
Bloomberg Government joins us from
Washington for more. Jonathan, welcome
to the program. What do we know so far
this morning?
So far, as we know, the president is
supposed to receive a briefing today
from CENTCOM commanders.
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General
Dan Kaine is also supposed to be there.
He's going to get a range of options,
according to Axios, from bombing, from
more direct action to try to take
control of the Strait of Hormuz, to
potentially sending in special forces to
grab the enriched uranium that Iran has.
All the same time, the president
yesterday also told Axios that he saw
the blockade as somewhat more effective
than the military action that he's
taken. So, he's laying out a range of
options and you never know what the
president what he's willing to actually
do and what he's doing to build leverage
and potential negotiations.
>> I'm not sure these headlines just
crossing will help the diplomatic
effort. Jonathan, thank you. We
appreciate I just want to read some of
the headlines coming from Iran's supreme
leader. This statement brought to us by
Iranian state TV that Iran will
dismantle US exploitation of Hormuz.
That new management of Hormuz will
benefit the region. I'm not sure if Gulf
partners in the region right now would
see it the same way. Absolutely not.
This is not acceptable to the UAE or
Saudi Arabia or any of the Gulf partners
that use the Strait of Hormuz. And also,
some of them are also right there as
well, like Oman in that body of water.
But of course, this is Iran's one piece
of leverage. So, what Jonathan is
talking about in that Axios report, if
the president wants to potentially use
military assets, it might be just at the
Strait of Hormuz. Maybe that means naval
escorts like we saw in the 1980s.
Unclear, but this is the piece of
leverage that's starting to really hit
the oil market.
>> Here's the take from Victoria Coates of
the Heritage Foundation writing the
following, "We're going to have a
tipping point in the coming weeks where
Iran just can't sustain itself anymore.
That's when the president will have the
most leverage." Victoria joins us now
for more. Victoria, welcome to the
program. This is a high-stakes blinking
contest. With that, there is no doubt.
Which side do you think is better
positioned to wait it out?
Well, Jonathan, good to be with you. I I
think it that for all the reasons you
you've been discussing this morning, the
United States is best positioned to wait
this out, if you will. And we have to
look at what's actually happening to the
Iranian economy. We had some really
important reporting yesterday on the
first metrics we've gotten out. And bear
in mind, I mean, they haven't had a
stock market for more than 2 months.
It's been shut down. Nobody knows what
their equities are worth, if anything.
Their currency is down, if you look at
it over the last 10 years, it's down
98%.
And so, you you you just have a lack of
value in that country that is
catastrophic. And Secretary Bessette was
talking about this yesterday as well.
The economic fury, the economic front of
this war is what is sort of causing the
devastating consequences to Iran. They
can't go on that much longer. We're not
happy about our oil prices. I know I
think Julian was absolutely correct.
This is putting a lot of pressure on
what should be a very successful time
for the economy. But at the same time,
it's just it's apples and oranges what's
happening in the United States and Iran.
And they're going to have to blink.
Victoria, no doubt that the Iranian
economy is in dire straits right now.
But how long can this administration
deal with $107 and going north when it
comes to WTI?
No, I mean, this obviously is something
they're going to have to need bring
down. And I think that's why the
president's getting that briefing today.
And there there are a range of options
on the table. There always are. General
Kaine, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs,
is someone in whom the president has
enormous confidence. He's performed
extraordinarily well over the course of
really the last, you year and and
months, but very much over the course of
the last 2 months. So, they can look at
the kind of military action that would
force an opening of the strait. I might
favor that personally. I'd want to see
the details. We do have options in terms
of our special operators who are
specially trained to deal with nuclear
material. So, you're getting a person
who's both a special operator and a
nuclear scientist. That's quite a
combination. I think we're the only ones
who have that. They could go in and go
after the highly enriched uranium. And
you also have the infrastructure targets
that the president's been talking about
for the last week or so that would have
that kind of final crippling effect on
the Iranian economy. Well, when it comes
to opening up the Strait of Hormuz, in
this Axios report, it says that such an
operation could include ground forces.
One source said, "What would that look
like?"
Well, I mean, that you you would have to
see how
as I said, I want to see the options
here. And there's there a lot of reasons
we shouldn't be seeing them, but at the
same time, I mean, you can put people on
the Iranian side of the strait to
prevent them from using ships and
missiles against any maritime traffic
coming through the strait. You could
put in some demining efforts to get rid
of the some dozen mines they've
theoretically put in there. So, and then
you can have the naval escorts that you
were talking about. So, you can use our
our navy assets to escort the ships
through and prevent the Iranians from
attacking them. Yesterday, Victoria, we
got signs that the US Central Command
has prepared a plan for a quote short
and powerful wave of strikes on Iran. Do
you have any sense of what this would be
focused on?
I think in that case, Stephanie, we're
looking at the infrastructure targets
that the president was talking about.
Bridges,
power plants, that kind of facilities.
And this this is going to be what would
would really shut Iran down, prevent
people from moving around. We're already
seeing these reports of their big
industries starting to close. They've
lost as many of as a million jobs. And
that what
would be crushing about this is there
maybe 10 to 12 million more jobs that
would be at risk if the president took
this kind of action. That's 50% of their
their workforce. So, essentially, 50%
unemployment happens overnight to Iran.
And you just wonder how the country can
continue functioning after that.
Victoria, always good to hear from you.
Thank you for the update. Victoria
Coates there of the Heritage Foundation
on who has the leverage and what the
next steps might be. Yeah, difficult to
know when Iran is talking about new
management. I'm wondering if they're
going to put up a new sign. You know,
new management under new management.
Come through the Strait of Hormuz today.
>> On the strait.
>> Exactly. Please come through. Here's the
permit.
to go [laughter] through. I don't think
that people would welcome that new
management. The Treasury Department just
put out an advisory this week, not just
to Americans, but really more
importantly to foreign buyers about if
you pay that toll, you will have the
consequences of US sanctions. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning. Let's cross over to Vani Khwaja
for more. Hey, Vani. Hey, John. Thank
you. Shares of Qualcomm higher in
pre-market trading. [music] The
chipmaker reporting growth in the data
center market and predicting that the
China phone industry would bounce back.
Qualcomm also sharing a top hyperscaler
is on track to start using its
components later [music] this year.
Anthropic is weighing a fresh funding
round that would value the company at
more than $900 billion.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg, if
successful, the AI developer could
surpass long-time rival OpenAI as the
world's [music] most valuable AI
startup.
Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund is
ending its financial support for LIV
Golf after the season. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg, the league has
already been engaging with investment
banks to secure new long-term financial
partners. The upstart golf league has an
announcement scheduled [music] to detail
next steps. And that is your Bloomberg
Brief, John. Hey, Vani. Thank you. Quite
an update for the golfing world, that's
for sure. And next on the program,
Powell's
>> [music]
>> sticking around.
After my term as chair ends on May 15, I
will continue to serve as a governor for
a period of time
to be determined.
I plan to keep a low profile as a
governor.
You know that meme from Wolf of Wall
Street? Wolf of Wall Street.
>> [laughter]
>> Exactly what I thought.
Wolf of Wall Street. Get my words The
day of the cameo comes out. Yes, I'm not
leaving. going. Yeah. Then everyone
cheers.
>> think there's a new meme. But there was
no cheering. I thought it was pretty
courtesy, right?
>> [laughter]
>> Get up.
You're not keeping a low profile. I know
how to late night.
Well, we both had a late night. I mean,
this is what it is.
>> up the drinks at the table yesterday
with TK?
>> [laughter]
>> Maybe. Maybe. That'd be fun. Neil Dutta
of Renaissance Macro joins us next, live
from New York. You're watching Bloomberg
TV. [music]
>> [music]
>> Equity futures picking up here higher by
0.2% on the S&P. Similar move on the
NASDAQ 100. Under surveillance this
morning, he's not leaving.
After my term as chair ends on May 15, I
will continue to serve as a governor for
a period of time
to be determined.
I plan to keep a low profile as a
governor. I'm literally staying because
of the actions that have been taken. I
had long planned to be retiring and
you know, the things that have happened
in really in the last 3 months of
I think left me no choice but to stay
until they're till I see them through at
least that long. It's the latest this
morning, the president blasting Jay
Powell's decision to remain at the Fed
after his term as chair ends, claiming
he only wants to stay quote because he
can't get a job anywhere else. Neil
Dutta of Renaissance Macro Research and
the bar to raising rates this year has
just come down. For Walsh, it might be a
waiting game. Neil joins us now for
more. Neil, welcome to the program. I
think we want your initial reaction to
the chairman staying on as a governor on
the board of governors. How
consequential do you think that decision
might turn out to be?
Well, I think it's consequential.
Obviously, it's not something that
happens
often. It hasn't happened in our
lifetime.
So, you have to go back a long way. Um
but look, I mean, nothing about this
process
uh since it started
when we had Fed chair celebrity
apprentice edition has been normal. So,
why should
Powell abide by norms when
you know, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue is
it? Neil, do you think it undermines, in
the words of the Treasury Secretary
Skanda Basin, undermines the other
Republican nominees on the board?
No, they're all big boys and girls. They
can
fend for themselves and they've done
they've done that. You know, they've all
shown themselves to be um
you know, independent and changing their
views in the face of economic data.
Do you get the sense that President
Trump is almost conciliatory in his lack
of
saying that he was going to fire him or
anything that we were all expecting and
that moving forward this can be sort of
a footnote and not necessarily center
stage in policy making?
Yeah, I mean, I think the best way for
the president to get what he wants is to
not comment on the personnel within the
Fed. You know, I I think right now, if
you know, we'll see what happens with
the Lisa Cook investigation. I mean, my
sense is that Powell's probably waiting
for some clarity around that before he
makes his next move. Um and I think my
advice to President Trump would be,
don't take the bait.
Don't take the bait. I mean, if you try
to Lisa Cook Jerome Powell, I don't
think it would go well
for the administration, but more
importantly for the financial markets.
The other aspect of this press
conference was the fact that there were
eight people who voted to keep the
rhetoric the same. There were three
people who voted to move to a more
balanced, more symmetrical risk and
there was one person, Stephen Myron, who
voted to cut rates by a quarter of a
percent. Do you think that it's a
mistake to move to more symmetric
language where the next move could be a
hike or a cut?
Um I think it would be a mistake. I
think it would be a relatively small
mistake in the face of the data that
we've seen. I mean, at the end of the
day, as Powell mentioned, I mean, it's
hard to argue against the idea of
lowering the bar to hikes, which is I
think what happened yesterday.
Inflation has been
strengthening. There's reasons to expect
additional pass through from higher
energy prices into core inflation.
And you know, the economy
is
bruised, but not yet really battered. I
mean, you know, this is a this is a
resilient economy and I mean, it's kind
of defied my expectations.
>> the line quick and make sure this is
Neil Dutta? [laughter]
>> I honestly don't know if this is Neil
Dutta. I was expecting a discussion
about labor. It's Neil. I don't know.
>> It's actually Neil.
>> I Maybe it's just simply a hologram.
>> Neil, this feels like a change. Is that
fair?
Well, I mean
I'm a sell-side analyst, John. When the
data change, you have to change your
view or
you start losing clients because no one
wants to listen to you. So, the you
know, you have to kind of adjust with
the times and I think you've seen that.
Look, I'm not the only one. You know who
the other person is? Christopher Waller
has changed his views.
You know, he's been kind of a little bit
more I guess you can say sanguine.
It doesn't mean that there aren't risks
out there. In fact, I continue to see
them,
but
you know, I think for right now, you
have to kind of tip your hat to the
economy and say things are stable. We'll
see where we stand at the end of the
year.
You know, we will have fiscal policy
transitioning from a tailwind to a
headwind. Um you know, the Fed is on
hold. Labor market conditions, I think
particularly wages, are still probably
cooling somewhat. Um and you know, right
now,
we're kind of in the throes of this
spectacular AI kind of CapEx boom. But
we see what the risks are, particularly
overseas.
But right now, I think if you're a Fed
watcher, you kind of have to just watch
and wait. And you know,
>> Julian Emanuel, who was on earlier,
basically said that we only have two
more months this economy could sustain
triple-digit crude. And if you look out
into July, July 4th in the futures
market, it's actually at $100. That's
what they're pricing. Where do you see a
breaking point?
Well, I think the important thing is
right now, the break is very linear in
nature. I mean, I think over time as
people feel higher gasoline prices. I
mean, remember, income growth going into
this wasn't wasn't any great shakes to
begin with. So, we are going to see
weaker real income growth and that in
turn, I think, will
you know, gravity will prevail and pull
down real consumer spending. But that's
still very much a forecast, not a
present-day reality. And given where
inflation is, the economy breaking has
to be
a present-day reality. I mean, that to
me is the primary tension right now. I
mean, the Fed doesn't really have your
back if you're an equity market
investor.
The Fed is basically waiting
for the unemployment rate to rise before
doing anything. So,
that's that's kind of where we are right
now, but we kind of need to see it
before they move. A data-dependent Neil
Dutta. Neil, good to see you as always.
Neil Dutta there of Renaissance Macro.
To Neil's point, Governor Waller has
changed his view somewhat. Neil's
changed his view. Secondly, Bostic has
seemed to have changed his view as well,
saying that he's more understanding of a
Federal Reserve if they keep interest
rates on hold for the time being, at
least for now.
>> That's what the market is coming around
to. I mean, Bob Michele yesterday,
similar kind of move. We were talking
about rate cuts to start the year. Now,
he's saying actually it doesn't seem
that likely. It does feel like this is a
sea change and it does feel like people
have been surprised by the strength of
the economy. At what point does the
corporate spending from the big
hyperscalers potentially triumph over
the weakness that we would have been
getting because oil prices are this
high?
>> The bar for hiking still high. Most
people would agree that the bar for
hiking is still high, but the bar got a
little bit lower. And that's the
development of the last 24 hours.
>> It's actually getting priced into the
market. There's a 40% chance of a rate
hike coming up through the through March
of next year. Look, will they do it?
Julian Emanuel says no way. At the same
time, the fact that it's getting
introduced in price action gives you a
sense of what's going on. And at the
same time, oil prices just keep going
up. Gasoline prices in America are going
up. And what did Kevin Warsh say at the
start of his hearing? Inflation is a
choice. Well, if it's a choice, then he
is at the going to be at the head of the
Fed who could potentially work to bring
that inflation down. Do you know what
else keeps going up? Stocks. Equities up
again this morning on the S&P by 2/10 of
1%. Staring down one of the biggest
monthly gains we've seen on the S&P 500
since 2020. Higher this month by close
to 10%.
>> What did we get? Yes, we got the
hyperscalers that beat expectations are
met. You get some modeled performance
just based on the CapEx plans. But you
have Ford outperforming. Caterpillar
coming out. I do think it's important to
reiterate what we just heard. You talked
about the headlines, John. The idea of
the beat on earnings per share. Their
machinery, power, and energy revenue is
16 and 1/2 billion dollars. This is
directly tied to the buildout of energy
infrastructure and AI. That was versus
an [music] estimate of 15.4 billion
dollars. I mean, this is just massive
stuff.
>> Some interesting moves this morning.
Looking at Dolly Yen as well, 2% move.
157, some Yen strength. On the brink of
intervention, real threats coming from
the Japanese Finance Ministry. We'll
spend some time on that in the next
hour. [music] Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Sharmin
Mossavar-Rahmani of Goldman Sachs,
Clayton Seagal of CSIS, Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley, the former Boston Fed
President Eric Rosengren.
Our policy stance is in a very good
place for us to wait and see.
>> I just don't see any need for the Fed to
really change its bias or react in
meaningful ways.
>> Odds
of cuts later this year certainly should
go down.
>> already took the easing [music] bias
out. Don't expect any changes in rates
this year, that's cuts or hikes.
>> This [music] is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures bounce by 2/10 of 1% on the S&P
500 on the final trading day of April,
looking for a gain this month of more
than 9% on the NASDAQ 100 up by 2/10 of
1% in the commodity market. Some stress
building [music] for eight consecutive
days coming into Thursday. A 30% move
over that period on Brent crude. We pull
back by close to 2%. Brent crude [music]
this morning at 116, WTI at 106. Heading
into this, central bank decisions galore
in the next 60 minutes. The Bank of
England decision just dropping. Interest
rates unchanged. Up next, the ECB at
8:15 Eastern time. Later, some economic
data and Apple after the close. Oil is
doing a lot of heavy lifting in the
wrong direction for the central banks.
And one thing that Andrew Bailey said of
the Bank of England was that there is a
risk of material second round effects.
This is the fear percolating through
markets and all these people who believe
that the Fed could previously [music]
cut rates significantly and other
central banks as well are now coming
around to the idea that maybe not
because right now we're dealing with an
economy that can handle oil prices where
they are and potentially you could start
seeing the trickle through in places
like hey CapEx spending by the [music]
likes of Meta that has to go up because
of how high commodity prices
>> We've priced in hikes at the Bank of
England. We've priced in hikes at the
ECB. We've [music] priced out the easing
at the Federal Reserve and this bond
market have responded accordingly in the
past few weeks.
>> You're seeing yields at the highest
levels at least in Japan [music] going
back to the late 1990s. If you take a
look at Europe, you're looking at the
highest levels going back to 2011, 2008
for the Bank of for English for gilt. At
this point, when does that torpedo
growth? When does that torpedo capital
markets activity? [music] Not yet. And
that is where the second round effects
could come into play. If this tightening
doesn't work as as a lot of people
expect.
>> We'll head over to Izzy Burton outside
the Bank of England in just a moment.
Need to work through the latest in the
Middle East as well. The latest
reporting from Axios suggesting the
president is slated to receive a
briefing on new plans for potential and
[music] I stress potential military
action in Iran. The latest from Axios
this morning.
>> interesting too about the report is one
option would be to try to open up the
Strait of Hormuz in a military fashion
and that would require one individual
said to Axios that would require boots
on the ground. We just [music] heard
from the supreme leader of Iran,
individual that we haven't seen but that
we've seen a few statements from that
says a new chapter of the Persian Gulf
and the Strait of Hormuz is being
written and they're talking about how
it's basically under new management
[music] when it comes to Strait of
Hormuz. That's the tolls and the fact
that they have absolute complete control
over it.
>> Let's set up the next 60 minutes and
then we'll get to the Bank of England
decision for you. Coming up this hour in
just a moment we'll catch up with
Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani of Goldman
Sachs with more tech earnings on tap.
Clayton Siegel of CSIS as crude climbs
through 115 through 120 at one point and
the former Boston Fed President Eric
Rosengren would share power planning to
stay on at the FOMC. Let's get to that
Bank of England decision then crossing
just moments ago. Izzy Burton has the
headlines. Hey Izzy.
Hey John. Well, as expected the Bank of
England has held rates at 3.75%
but it's really the commentary around
this decision that is in focus here. 8-1
was the vote split as expected. The
chief economist of the Bank of England,
Huw Pill, voting dissenting to hike
rates now. He's worried about the second
round effects and a lot of emphasis on
the second round effects in these new
scenarios that the Bank of England has
put out. So this is the first set of
forecasts that we've had from the bank,
the first complete set of forecasts
since the start of the Iran war and
indeed if we just go into what they say
in all scenarios rates would be going
up. Now, the Bank of England they has
maintained its guidance that it stands
ready to act as needed. That's what they
said at the March meeting. Remember
there was no press conference that time
but it set off a massive market reaction
that the governor had to walk back. This
time they've scrapped the central
forecast in favor of these three
scenarios. No second round effects in
scenario A, some in B, in C they'd be
material. And so you've got different
members of the Monetary Policy Committee
putting different emphasis on these
scenarios. But if you look at it in C,
CPI would peak at 6.2% in the first
quarter of 2027, unemployment at 5.7%.
As I say, rates rising in all three
scenarios and different members of the
Monetary Policy Committee emphasizing
which is most likely. But for Pill, the
dissenter here, he says the risk of
second round effects are skewed to the
upside and that's really what matters
here when you're listening to him. Look
at the market reaction. Interesting to
see that gilt yields on the 10-year have
fallen. We're down six basis points at
5.01%.
So compare that to before we had higher
gilt rates
yields we we were in a jittering market
anyway. You'll note the reaction to the
March decision. We're factoring the
energy price shock. We're also factoring
in the political risks here in the UK.
>> Are we on the edge of a policy mistake
in Europe? Izzy Burton, thank you. We'll
hear more from the ECB a little bit
later this morning. These are central
banks that the market is pricing hikes,
pricing in hikes for the year ahead of
both the Bank of England and the ECB and
to some extent I think the words of Huw
Pill this morning, the chief economist
of the Bank of England, validating some
of that market pricing. Saying
ultimately he thinks they should hike
right now. Just to note that in scenario
C that Izzy was laying out, they would
say forceful action would be warranted
in terms of tightening. So that would
come with a an inflation rate above 6%.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Stocks looking for some
direction as big tech plans another
massive AI spend in the face of what
could be tightening central banks
worldwide. Joining us, Sharmin
Mossavar-Rahmani, the wealth management
CIO and head of the investment strategy
group at Goldman Sachs. Sharmin, it's
good to see you. Hello. Thank you.
>> for being here. Are central banks about
to become a headwind to this equity
market rally?
We actually had a very good exhibit on
one of our client calls. If you look at
the 21
past strikes that the US has had on the
Middle East or North Africa
up to eight months
eight weeks after the initial strike,
the equity markets have been up on
average 4% and that's exactly where we
are. So everybody's saying oh the equity
market is going ahead. How can they
ignore the price of oil whether it's WTO
or Brent? Um what is exactly going on?
Growth is still robust. Obviously we're
going to get Q1 numbers but I think
nobody's thinking that we're in
recession is imminent.
Um and if you look at the earnings we've
gotten, they've been incredible. I mean
substantially greater than consensus and
this is a pretty significant uh ex ex
in terms of exceeding expectations, it's
a pretty significant number. It's not
like oh we exceeded earnings by 2%, 3%,
5%. It's double digit. And if you look
at the number of quarters where we've
exceeded expectations, the number of
consecutive quarters, it's just
incredible. And so when people talk
about the impact of the war
we have said the US
economy is unbelievably resilient and
people continue to underestimate that.
So as we look at this, I don't think
anybody knows exactly how long this will
last. If it lasts a lot longer and oil
prices stay at these levels, then the
economy will be weaker and so the idea
that people can raise rates in the face
of weakening economy, especially in the
US when you have a dual mandate, I think
we need to factor in a lot of
uncertainty. Do you think that there is
a lack of logic when people say well oil
prices are at this level and you see
still that robust growth in the economy?
So that means that the inflationary
impacts can get passed through much more
directly and easily because of the CapEx
spend, because of how well these
companies are doing. Do you see that as
a logical connection or do you think it
just hasn't been long enough with oil
prices at this level? There are actually
two points, you're right. It hasn't been
long enough. So that's number one
because if this war were to last and we
see oil prices here, eventually we will
get to negative numbers in the equity
market. But for now the idea that we're
up 4-5% is actually totally in line with
history and from our perspective, one of
the pillars of our investment philosophy
is history is a useful guide. So first
we have that as the backdrop that we
need to follow. The other thing that
people need to think about is the energy
intensity in terms of usage of oil is a
lot different than the early 80s. So
when we had the Arab oil embargo, then
we had the Iran-Iraq war, we had the
Iranian revolution, prices skyrocketed.
But at that time
the energy consumption in the US in
terms of barrels per capita per year
were substantially higher. In fact, it
was around that say 30 barrels
a year. That number is down to around
23-24 now. So there's also a view that
energy crude oil will not impact as
much. Obviously it will. Fertilizers, we
hear about all of these things. But it
has to last a while. It does affect the
cost of components and we saw this with
some of the hyperscalers reporting
earnings last night. Meta, for example,
increased their expected CapEx in part
because of higher component costs. Maybe
also because of some of the
transportation issues that people are
experiencing. At what point does that
become a sticking point? Maybe not for
the biggest tech companies but for some
of the tech companies out there that are
facing an existential threat but are
having to pay that much more to even
play ball?
I think there is a big question mark
about the
returns to the CapEx for AI companies.
The hyperscalers obviously have so much
cash flow from other factors that they
can do quite well. And if you look at
their earnings, whether it was the
latest reports or last year's, they're
just been phenomenal. But the rest of
the economy is actually doing quite well
and people underestimate again the
resilience. If you think about oil
production in the US, US produces double
the levels of Saudi Arabia. Right? It's
just incredible. You think about natural
gas. US has become the largest exporter
of natural gas literally in 10 years.
Far exceeding Qatar. So as we think
about these factors, people need to
think that the shock is not as great.
And at the end of the day both sides
want to end this war. The question is
what is a respectable off-ramp for both
sides and I think the market is saying
we will get there. Well, there'll be
fits and start escalation, de-escalation
and we're going to have to go through
that and that's why we recommend our
clients stay invested. Don't try to time
this market. Nobody can do that
consistently very well. But in the
beginning conventional thinking was four
to six weeks. We're now eight to nine
weeks into this war. How much longer
with these kind of elevated prices do
you think the economy can withstand?
Julian Emanuel says July and then things
might start to break down. Do you have a
a date where you're looking at? Not
really because we nobody really knows,
right? If you look at the probabilities,
it's not as if it's so obvious how long
this will last, I think we know both
sides don't want it to last July and
August.
>> conflict. How long the economy could
withstand triple digit crude?
Well, in the US we're just sort of just
around triple digit, right? And we've
been here before and prices lasted at
these levels for a while. I don't think
the economy's going to break. We had
initially expected GDP to be around 2.3
when we started, then momentum 2.4%.
Now, because of the war and oil prices,
we've lowered it to 2.1%,
but we have a very low probability of
recession even at these levels if prices
were to stay here. I think to say
exactly is it July, again, if you
believe the resilience of the economy
and adjustments and we're talking about
the US that has ample crude and natural
gas, right? It's really the rest of the
world. And if you the US is a big
importer and less of an exporter than
inter- not in terms of hydrocarbons and
things like that, but in aggregate, the
damage to the economy is going to be
much less than it is for example to
Europe or to China.
Do you think we're moving into a phase
where the offset to equity risk is
increasingly gold and commodities and
not developed market bonds, which
increasingly are subject to potentially
spending issues, deficit issues, as well
as just the natural inflation in the
system? That's a very good question
because all our clients are asking us
how can they hedge against the risk of
war?
And we tell clients that at the end of
the day, the best hedge against
inflation
has been historically US equities in
aggregate. So, in fact, that's why again
we say stay invested. Gold is not a good
inflation hedge and not a good deflation
hedge. So, the idea that gold is
something you need to have in your
portfolio is something we totally
disagree with. We don't think it's
really part of a client's strategic
asset allocation, and tactically we've
actually said that when you see these
kinds of price increases driven by
central banks, especially initially by
China and then countries like Turkey,
Poland, uh clients shouldn't be caught
up in the euphoria and the momentum of
gold. And obviously we've seen a pretty
significant decline from peak levels.
Senate big turnaround. Shamin, it's
great to catch up with you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Shamin Masoud Rakhmani there.
Equity futures this morning positive by
a third of 1% on the S&P 500. A bounce
back here. A Bank of England decision
just moments ago falling short of some
of the hawkish expectations. Very, very
hawkish pricing in this market head of
this decision. An 8-1 vote to some
extent falling short of that. That one
vote though, that one vote is that
endorsement this market was looking for
of a central bank that might be getting
closer to hiking interest rates, but
that's all we've got.
>> And frankly, the 8-1 decision highlights
how difficult this is really is for for
England right now. The fact that they're
talking about north of 6% inflation at
the same time 5.7% unemployment. That is
uncomfortable. Some of the hawks just in
a holding pattern at the moment. Yields
pulling back on gilts so far this
morning. Let's get an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Vony Quinn has more. Hey Vony. Hey John,
thank you. President Trump defending the
US blockade of Iranian ports saying it's
more effective than bombing the country.
Trump rejecting the latest Iranian
proposal to open the Strait of Hormuz
and lift the blockade until concerns
about Iran's nuclear program are
addressed. Axios reporting the president
will receive a new briefing on the
situation today.
In his final meeting as Fed chair,
Jerome Powell announced he will remain
on as governor after his term ends next
month. Powell saying he felt he had no
choice but to stay [music] amid a series
of legal attacks.
I'm literally staying because of the
actions that have been taken. I I had
long planned to be retiring and
you know, the things that have happened
in really in the last 3 months of
I think left me no choice but to stay
until till I see them through at least
that long.
Um you know, in addition,
uh I don't see how this will interfere.
The president blasting Powell's decision
posting quote, "Powell wants to stay at
the Fed because he can't get a job
anywhere else."
Shares of Bill Ackman's Pershing Square
down 18% in its market debut. The fund
raised $5 billion in its IPO falling
short of the $25 billion it had
originally sought to bring in. Ackman
aims to build a long-term diversified
holdings company such as [music] Warren
Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway. And that
is your Bloomberg Brief, John. Hey Vony,
thank you. Thank you very much. More
from Vony later this hour. Up next on
the program, curbing the crude search.
Nobody likes, of course, high prices in
the short term, but they understand
increased American energy exports,
increased energy addition policies, lean
in to more energy production. That's
what President Trump is all about. Up
next we'll catch up with Clayton Siegel
of CSIS live from New York City [music]
this morning. Good morning.
So, here's the bounce. A little bit of a
turnaround cross asset. Let's start with
equities. We're positive. Didn't do much
yesterday. Positive by a third of 1% on
the Nasdaq up by 0.4. [music]
Lots of tech results we need to talk
about. Let's turn to commodities. A
turnaround there. Eight-day streak of
higher oil prices broken this morning.
That's the longest daily streak going
back to May 22. We're down by 2.7%. 115.
Even with the threat, and I stress
potential threat, of military action in
the Middle East given the latest
reporting from Axios, crude pulling
back. That's notable. That's how we see
yields drop just opening up [music] some
space for yields to pull back. 2s down
30s. 2s down five basis points. 10s down
four. And then this move in dolly
[music] yen. Let's bring up the chart.
Brutal stuff if you're on the wrong side
of this. Dolly yen -2% [music]
in the yen's favor. The Japanese Finance
Ministry with a range of headlines this
morning. Suddenly verbal intervention
takes on a new twist from Japan. This is
your final warning. Get ready. We're
close. Yeah, stay close to your phones
because ultimately we might say or we
might take action at any time. So, I can
just imagine the alarms people have set.
>> Yeah, that's not the trade you want to
be on the other side of this [music]
morning at least. Dolly yen 157. And the
sub added this morning, curbing the
crude search.
The critical outcome here is that we end
the ability for Iran to have a nuclear
weapon. So, look, we're going through a
period of discomfort to solve a 47-year
crisis. Nobody likes, of course, high
prices in the short term, but they
understand increased American energy
exports, increased energy addition
policies, lean in to more energy
production. That's what President Trump
is all about. It's the latest this
morning. Crude hovering near four-year
highs as the US weighs new military
options in Iran. Axios reporting
President Donald Trump is preparing
[music] for a briefing with the head of
US Central Command later on today.
Clayton Siegel of CSIS writing global
balances are heading for a 1 billion
barrel shortfall with fuel prices
increasingly likely to hit corporate
earnings, consumer wallets, and GDP
growth. Clayton joins us now for more.
Clayton, and yet the blockade continues.
How much storage do you believe Iran has
left?
Hey, good morning. You know, it probably
has several weeks worth of storage left,
but I think that the market and
observers are maybe over indexing on how
much pressure
a potential shut-in of production is
going to play in Tehran. I mean, they've
had to pair back production and shut-in
wells in previous episodes when
sanctions were really hitting hard, and
they have had the ability to scale back
up after that. So, I think this kind of
the story du jour
that's making its way through markets
that it's going to result in some kind
of permanent damage that they need to
scramble to avoid, it might be a little
bit exaggerated. But instead, we could
really look at the effectiveness of the
blockade in keeping those ballasting
tankers, the empty tankers, from getting
into the Gulf in order to serve as
floating storage. So, all of these
things kind of go together in terms of
their storage capacity. But Clayton, if
they're using these empty vessels to
store some of these barrels, when they
hit tank tops, what happens next?
So, if they can't get more
empty tankers in in order to keep
loading at places like Kharg Island,
then they will have to organize a
program of turning down production in
the fields. But remember, that's also
what the other Gulf Arab producers have
been faced with in the last couple of
months. So, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Iraq,
Kuwait, they've all had to turn down
production because there's nowhere to
physically put the oil at the earlier
production limits cuz it's just not
getting out of the Gulf. So, of course,
Iran is in the same boat as the rest of
them, but the question is can a
production downturn be organized by the
engineers, by the geologists to avoid
any kind of lasting damage? That's
question number one, and I think the
answer is probably yes because they have
experience and track record of doing
that in the past. But then the second
question is, you know, do the decision
makers, the powers that be in Tehran,
really care that much? I mean, these are
the same people that went against
their own population with very severe
crackdown recently. And so, I'm not sure
that they're going to be motivated
necessarily by the long-term vision for
Iran's upstream industry. Right, we have
seen Iran deal with that in the past.
What about Gulf partners that are also
dealing with potential shut-ins at
wells?
And we've had more than 13 million
barrels per day of oil production
downturn during this crisis. And this is
all because the strait remains closed.
So, when I was looking at the blockade
proposal a month or so ago, I think the
idea there was it could really be a
force for good just to temporarily level
the playing field and to send a message
to Tehran, "Hey look, if everyone else's
vital energy exports can't get to
market, you're going to have a hard time
getting yours out, too." But then
immediately use that opening to resume
diplomatic negotiations and find a
mutually acceptable off-ramp to this
crisis so that the exports can resume
and so that the global economy can
rebound and be protected. But, uh the
Trump administration has handled it a
little bit differently. Uh they
announced at the same time of the
blockade being imposed earlier this
month that uh it's going to stay in
force until a final agreement is
reached. So, that's not really a
temporary bridge. That's kind of keeping
the chokehold on Tehran unless and until
we have a final settlement and I
apparently that hasn't played very well
there. Clayton, what does a mutually
acceptable agreement look like that
really removes the risk that Iran could
do this again?
I think that the key point is that both
sides are going to have to climb down
from maximal positions. I mean, it can't
be that Tehran has a complete chokehold
over the world economy going forward. Uh
exporters and their customers don't want
to hear about a permanent tolling
arrangement. So, I think that they
should make compromises on that front
from here in Washington uh to try to
architect a deal related to uranium
enrichment that is uh even stronger than
the the previous arrangement, the
so-called JCPOA that was negotiated
under the Obama years. You know, that's
a high hurdle. So, if both sides can
just get their must-haves out of a
diplomatic agreement instead of um
uh the nice-to-haves. I think that
there's room for progress. Clayton,
appreciate your time. Thank you. Clayton
Swigle there, a CSIS down in the
nation's capital in Washington, D.C.
It's difficult to please everyone
because so many parties are involved and
it's not just the US and Iran. It's
nations across the Gulf as well. Even if
you get to a place where suddenly people
can go through the Strait of Hormuz, but
Iran has the ability to potentially
reverse course, what kind of premium
starts getting baked into oil prices?
And you're going to get a lot of those
pipelines that are being diverted in
other directions from the other Gulf
regions just as quickly.
>> Are shipping companies going to have the
confidence to go to the Strait of Hormuz
even if the United States says, "We feel
like it's safe and it's open." It took
about 6 months for the Red Sea to get a
little bit back to a normal cadence. And
that was when the Houthis, this is on a
totally different level when it comes to
Shahed drones and the IRGC on
speedboats. I remember when it opened 2
weeks ago. Do you remember that?
Two Fridays ago, Strait of Hormuz is
reopening.
>> Verbally opened, not physically opened.
>> Of course. And then it didn't until
People are brilliant because if you go
online, there are all these people
There's actually a Google review for the
Strait of Hormuz and it has one star.
Seen this. And it has, you know, it has
the state
Well,
>> [laughter]
>> it's cuz you can't get lower than that.
And it's uh Monday, you know, maybe open
from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Tuesday
closed, Wednesday closed, etc. And now I
can just imagine it has a big banner
over its head. I mean, it's It's
farcical, isn't it? Yet, it's really,
really serious.
>> the whole thing. Exactly.
>> And you've got countries across Asia
getting crushed by this because they
haven't got access to the energy. It's
not just a price story. As we've said
repeatedly, it's a shortage story. We're
seeing this come through in the economy
and the economic performance. Europe
underperforming today and we see that
consistently as a result of this.
>> Underperforming if you have some central
banks still
at least discussing the potential for
rate hikes, [music] which just seems
crazy. One mandate, not dual mandate.
And is that going to change?
>> for second-round effects when your
economy's not that strong, though.
That's
That's my struggle.
>> question. It's my struggle. Mike Wilson
John, for ECB of Morgan Stanley up next.
I can see it on the young. The Bank of
England decision just behind us, the ECB
decision ahead of us at 8:15 Eastern
time, 30 minutes later a news conference
with Christine Lagarde. We'll take some
of that right here on Bloomberg TV.
After that, we'll get some economic
data. Jobless claims coming at 8:30
Eastern time, a host of other data
points as well. Then after the close, we
get numbers from [music] Apple to wrap
up a big week for tech results. Equity
futures so far this morning, your scores
look like this, higher by 0.4% on the
S&P [music] 500, up nicely on the
Nasdaq, up by 0.6 to add to a pretty
impressive monthly gains so far. I think
of more than 14%, which would be the
biggest monthly gain going back to, I
believe, April 2020. [music]
And we saw some big gains back then.
Yeah, if you take a look at some of the
performance over the past month, [music]
April is poised to be the best month for
the Nasdaq 100 since 2020. The S&P tech
sector is poised for the best month
since 2002. And if you look at semis,
you got to go back to 2000 to get to
these levels. So, it's, you know, driven
by a particular area, let's be honest.
You've been pointing this out, though,
energy stocks, the worst performers.
>> nothing. I don't understand this. I
mean, we've been talking about this.
>> done nothing for 2 months.
>> They've actually lost. I mean, this is
sort of the question. What are we
looking at here? Crazy, isn't it? Even
with these moves in crude close to 115
this morning, pulling back to 113,
[music]
briefly through 120. We had an 8-day run
of higher crude prices on Brent up over
the period by 30%.
The climb of this morning on WTI was
down by three to three percentage
points. That's unlocking this move in
the bond market because yields
yesterday, 10s and 30s closed at the
highs of the [music] year, pulling back
from those levels, down four basis
points on 10s, 439, down five on twos
>> [music]
>> to 389. At what point does it start to
bite into some of the enthusiasm that
we're seeing in markets? I feel like a
Debbie Downer this morning when I
mention that because when we talk about
it to analysts, they say, "We're
managing just fine and it's not going to
stay here." But, right now it does feel
like we keep creeping higher in the
developed markets. And at some point,
when does that start [music] to put a
crimp on some of the capital markets?
>> Just the chorus in the control room.
Only this morning.
Just a small.
Normally, I'm really optimistic. I mean,
come on. We're talking about
>> on a daily basis. So, we're usually
Normally? You should listen to my
conversations at home. I imagine. They
sound What was it about last night at
the dinner table?
>> You know, human versus AI and the the
offspring of the the
the offspring of
long AI, short humans. And
>> is happening at our house.
>> mood get better through the day
>> [laughter]
>> and then decline again at night? Is that
how things work?
>> Uh again, dooby but with a smile.
>> [music]
>> Okay. As we count you down to the open
about, I love it. 2 hours away from the
cash open. Let's get you some morning
movers. You Yohai Ra Hasma. Hi, Yohai
Ra. Hi, John. We're getting a wave of
earnings this morning and we stand We we
we start with some standouts in the
pharma sector. Take a look at shares of
Eli Lilly up more than 7% [music]
in the premarket after it raised its
guidance due to booming demand for those
weight-loss drugs. Lilly's saying that
its latest one, that pill, is off to a
great start. Merck also um it was a beat
there due to strong demand for its newer
drugs as its older ones [music] face
expiring patents. Moving on to Royal
Caribbean, those shares also rising 7%
in the premarket. Investors looking past
weaker guidance due to [music] higher
fuel costs tied to the war and they're
clinging onto this. Royal saying that
after a dip in March [music] and April,
bookings have recovered and are even are
even running ahead of last year. [music]
And we end on Caterpillar, those shares
also rising in the premarket up nearly
5% after a massive beat as this legacy
industrial name becomes part of the AI
buildout.
>> [music]
>> Uh Caterpillar seeing huge demand for
its generators and gas turbines, of
course, part of the AI data center
buildout. John. Yohai Ra, thank you.
Thanks for the latest. That stock higher
by close to 5% on our radar this
morning. Alphabet surging as AI demand
fuels a cloud computing boom. Meta
lagging behind after a massive budget
hike weighs on the stock. The four
companies, including Amazon and
Microsoft, are expected to spend more
than $725
billion in 2026.
As well, crude hovering near wartime
highs on reports the US is weighing new
military options in Iran. Axios
reporting this morning that the
president will receive a briefing from
the CENTCOM commander later on today
after rejecting Tehran's latest deal.
And finally, the president blasting Jay
Powell's decision to remain with the Fed
after his term as chair ends. Writing on
Truth Social, quote, "Powell wants to
stay at the Fed because he can't get a
job anywhere else."
>> And we've been talking about how that's
really tame. I mean, ultimately, we're
talking about potential war in the court
system. Does this matter? And
ultimately, what is the best strategy
for everyone moving forward? What does
it mean for him to take a low profile
and to stick around?
>> move forward and move on, I hope. I
think that is the best strategy. Well,
that's what a lot of people would
suggest, but what is he waiting for? Is
it the Lisa Cook or is it something
else? And when can we move past the bus
bachelor?
>> It could be the Fed Inspector General
report. It could be what's going on with
the Supreme Court and Lisa Cook's seat.
I think Neil Dutta hit the nail on the
head when he said, "The White House
hasn't handled this process normally.
So, why should Powell be expected to
handle this process normally?" I do
think it's interesting, though. Powell's
a dove. Does anyone think he's a hawk?
Maybe the White House is actually like,
"Whatever. At least he's going to vote
in our favor."
>> Rates at zero at multi-decade lows when
inflation was at multi-decade highs.
It's hard to call him hawkish.
>> My favorite part is that talking about
Republicans and how this undermines the
Republican appointed nominees to the
Fed. Well, guess what? Chair Powell is a
Republican nominee. In fact, it is
President Trump's own nominee. So, you
know, let's let's really uh park this.
And by the way, Kevin Warsh is an inner
hawk. So, let's be clear about that.
>> hoping for that follow-up question.
But, sir, isn't Jay Powell the
president's own nominee? But, we didn't
get it.
>> Well, obviously, you watched the channel
that interview took place on. So, you
expected a follow-up.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean, come on. It's very very
predictable stuff.
>> an easy It was an easy follow-up. I was
So, I just wanted to hear what the
president had to say to it.
>> Follows the script on the hyper-partisan
news networks in America. You know this.
We'll catch you with the NEC director a
little bit later to talk about some of
these issues. Kevin Hassett joining us
at 9:30 Eastern time. Let's talk about
tech. Four of the Mag 7 beating
expectations and planning a more than
$700 AI spend. Mike Wilson, Morgan
Stanley CIO and chief equity strategist
writing, "Our factor work shows the
market is broadly rewarding higher
capital spending as cyclical and
structural forces encourage CapEx." Mike
joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning. Good morning.
>> Can you build on that a little bit more
because we got some pushback to the
likes of Meta. How universal is that
take? Yeah, I mean, this has been a call
we've had for quite a while and this is
part of the rebalancing thesis. I mean,
the administration is encouraging more
CapEx and the good news is is that the
market is rewarding more CapEx, not just
with the hyperscalers, but more broadly.
And I think this is an interesting
question to think about. First of all, 4
weeks ago, we did step in pretty
aggressively on the hyperscalers. We
thought they sold off way too much and
people were kind of punishing those
stocks in a way that they you know they
got very very cheap and now they've
rallied quite a bit. Now if you look at
the other stocks you know that benefit
from capex they're also working some of
the industrial names you know some of
the some of the parts of the economy
that are going to see this. That's part
of the big beautiful bill. That is the
story right more investment less
consumption to get higher productivity.
So that this is a broader thesis than
just AI capex. I think it's really
important that companies continue to
allocate capital in a way that leads to
higher productivity. That's the
strategy. That's what we're trying to
achieve. That's kept you bullish
throughout all of this over the last 2
months. We've all been following your
research. How insulated are we in this
equity market not the economy the the
stock market from what's happening
elsewhere abroad in the Middle East?
Well look it comes down to earnings. I
mean if companies are earnings you know
growing earnings 15 20% and the forward
earnings expectation is 25% they're not
going to be laying people off or
restricting themselves on capital
spending or doing things to make their
businesses grow. You know one of the
thing that theme that we've been talking
about for years is this disinflationary
regime okay. So if you're in an
inflationary regime and the Fed now has
real rates close to 2% which is you know
kind of restrictive in some ways. Okay
we got to find a way to grow like
organically. And so this is a real
change over the last 15 years when it
was all about financial repression
buying back stock you know borrowing at
negative rates. Companies got to invest
real capital take real risk to generate
real returns. So who do you want to bet
on? You want to bet on the companies
that you know are high quality that have
those have done that in the past have
have generated high returns on capital
in the past. Does this uh still support
the idea of a broadening out trade given
the fact that it is the biggest
companies and a lot of the bigger
earners have been the hyperscalers that
have the ability to invest but the
consumer on the margins I hate saying
this but it's being more choiceful you
know chooseier pickier because they
don't have as much discretionary
spending. That's right and so I mean
that the consumer statements have not
performed well in the last month or so.
So in other words the market everybody
says oh the market is ignoring these
high oil prices. I don't think so. I
mean you look at some of the consumer
retail names you look at the the airline
stocks you know things tied to higher
oil prices have underperformed. So the
market has just moved away from that for
areas that are somewhat insulated to
John's question. All right so we still
think the broadening story is happening
and the reason we're saying that is
because the earning story is telling us
that. Earnings growth for the median
stock in the Russell 3000 is now well
into the double digits. That's the first
time we've seen this since 2021.
That's why we had the broadening call
for this year. So that to me is the
that's the opportunity now. Everybody's
crammed back into sort of the same names
saying it's only a handful of stocks. No
there's a lot of companies businesses
that are doing quite well in this
environment.
>> When would the bond yield backdrop start
to worry you given the fact that we have
seen the long end of the yield curve
creep higher? Right here.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh it's uh 440 has been that we've kind
of rejected that a couple of times in
the last few months and we've seen the
Fed and the Treasury intervene in both
cases right? J Powell with a little bit
of dovish rhetoric on the 30th uh the
Treasury doing bigger buybacks you know
more bill issuance. You know they have
these these games we've written about
this extensively. What I'm watching is
two things 450 on a 10 year. We've
established that in the last couple
years. We're not quite there but more
importantly bond volatility. Okay so the
move index you know was up around 115
back at the end of March related to oil
prices and the Fed getting a bit more
hawkish and then if sure sure enough the
Treasury and Fed stepped in and now
that's down to like 70. That's totally
cool. So I'm watching bond volatility if
that starts to pick up with rates at 440
450 we could have a decent correction of
say 4 5%.
>> We're looking at corporate credit as
well this morning. This headline just
crossed in late so one for you. NatWest
kicking off a six-part US high-grade
debt sale following earnings. And this
is to be expected considering the fact
that they're hiking the costs. Will debt
investors like the fact that that
spending will be going into not just
more capacity but higher prices because
the commodity costs are increasing. Are
people getting the bang for the buck?
>> So Mike you talk a lot about earnings.
Let's talk about the P the price and the
multiple. What's the multiple that these
companies deserve now given how
different they are this morning to how
they were 10 years ago? Well I mean
they're spending more money to your
point so the multiple has come down. You
know one of the calls we had this year
which I think kind of got lost in the
shuffle. Everybody was sort of saying I
can't believe the stock market's only
down 6 or 7% you know this is ridiculous
the market's wrong. Well first of all
the market is never wrong. Okay you're
wrong. Okay and and what was going on is
that the PE multiple was down 18%. Okay
18% A lot of compression.
>> I mean think about that 18% PE. That's
as bad as last year going into
liberation day. That's what we typically
get in a recession and earnings are
going 15% year over year. So we think
the market once again fooled a lot of
folks. It it had had its correction
under the surface. It did a lot of good
work and and that's why we got more
aggressive towards the end of March
saying 18% is enough. I didn't expect
this to rally like this by the way I'm
not taking credit for that but the entry
point I think was pretty easy to kind of
see back in late March.
>> Can we finish on energy? We're
mentioning that Chevron Exxon left at
nothing over the last 2 months since the
end of February. That's right. Pretty
much flat. What's the story there and
what would you do with that sector at
the moment? Well change your start date.
Uh January since January 1st I mean Big
first quarter. They're up huge and so I
mean once again equity market you know
is really smart. So the oil stocks
started really working the day that we
did the Venezuela extraction of Maduro
okay and it was right and oil services
stocks and they had a massive move 30%
relative outperformance and they
literally topped the day that you know
we attacked Iran. Okay that was the day
they topped on a relative basis. We
wrote about that since one of the
reasons we got bullish on the market was
we said okay market's telling us that
oil prices are going to be lower in the
future right? The spread between Brent
and WTI. We wrote about that and then
the relative underperformance of energy
stocks. That's the leading indicator
that tells and I'm still confident about
that. That's why if if energy stocks
started really outperforming I'd get
worried that maybe oil prices are going
to be higher in the second half. So look
I I have an easy job. I just let the
market tell me what's going to happen.
>> like you're having a good year. You feel
like you're in the groove?
Yeah some I feel I'm in a groove
exactly. I feel like I'm in a groove you
know I'm sure that'll change again. It's
kind of like a golf game you know Yeah I
was going to say it feels like sports
you know when things are going well
[laughter] you can sort of see the ball
just a little bit better a little
sharper. You wake up and you just have
that coordination and then days when you
wake up and you walk into a wall. I get
it.
>> [laughter]
>> Financial markets feel like that
sometimes.
>> it's true it's sort of the days that are
things are lucid. The idea that the
market is smart and sussing something
out. I think it is telling though that
oil stocks are down and the idea here of
what that tells you going forward about
how long this is going to last. When
does that pivot right? I mean I guess
that that's the key question. Mike it's
good to see you. It always is. Thank you
sir. Great calls recently Mike Wilson
there of Morgan Stanley. Let's give you
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief and
Yvonne Quinn has more. Hey Yvonne. Hey
Hey John thank you. The longest partial
government shutdown in history is a step
closer to coming to an end. The House
has approved the first part of a
two-part plan to reopen the Department
of Homeland Security. [music]
Speaker Mike Johnson is now eyeing a
separate bill that would finance the
parts of the department outside ICE and
Border Patrol through September 30th.
Shares of Ford lower in premarket
trading. Ford CFO Sherry House telling
Bloomberg's Romaine Bostick that rising
commodity costs will weigh on earnings.
The forward curves are still holding
that this Middle East uh
situation is going to be more on the
short-lived side. You know as a result
um at this point in time we are
believing that there's going to be some
recovery as we start to exit Q3 um as we
get through Q3 and Q4.
Ford also boosting its full year profit
outlook driven by high demand for
pickups and SUVs.
Amazon is considering a reboot of The
Apprentice with Donald Trump Jr. as the
host. The Wall Street Journal reporting
discussions are in the early stages and
Amazon has not yet approached the Trump
family. If the show gets made it would
appear on Amazon's Prime Video service
and that is your Bloomberg [music]
Brief.
>> John Yvonne thank you. That sounds super
early given that the family's not been
approached.
>> No but it sounds sounds funny. Would you
watch? I think I'd watch an episode.
>> obviously I'd tune in. You know my taste
[music] in in TV when I'm not at work.
It's the kind of thing I'd probably tune
in for. It's currently happening at the
Federal Reserve. I mean it's still
ongoing so whatever. Would you watch?
I think this is a marketing play for
Amazon.
>> Bachelor is not on at the moment on ABC.
Oh yeah that's what I do. I go home and
watch Bachelor with the family. Trump
recently went down memory lane and
truthed out his high ratings of The
Apprentice. So I don't know I I think he
would encourage Junior to do this.
>> Up next on the program an insult to the
Federal Reserve.
It's highly unusual what Chair Powell
did. This is a a violation of all
Federal Reserve norms and it is an
insult to Kevin Warsh. Up next we'll
catch up with the former Boston Fed
President Eric Rosengren live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Overnight things weren't looking great.
You had crude pushing 120. You'd just
seen the 10 and 30 year yield stateside
close at the highs of the year and the
tech story was mixed. It was pretty
mixed with the likes of Meta getting
[music] slammed pretty hard but since
then things have recovered somewhat.
Equities are up by 0.4%. The Nasdaq's up
by 0.5.
>> [music]
>> In the commodity market despite some
let's just say not encouraging headlines
coming [music] from the Middle East
Brent is lower not higher down by 4%
following eight consecutive [music] days
of gains for Brent crude. We're down to
113.58. And when you take that picture
and plug it in and fold it over to
what's happening right now in the bond
market yields are lower and not higher.
They're down five or six basis points at
the front end of the curve and down
three looking further out on tens. I
wonder if there's a regional bias. It
seems like when trading is open in Asia
and Europe which is being a more
significantly affected by some of the
shortages, [music] people feel a lot
worse and then when they come to the
United States, based on all the guests
that we've had, things are great. CAPEX
is booming. AI is going to save the
world and it feels like there's just
such a different tone with the focus on
earnings that people kind of look at all
of the bright sides rather than
everything else.
>> It's a pretty impressive stimulus
program coming from four of the biggest
companies on the planet, isn't it?
>> 100%. You've got corporate stimulus
instead of fiscal stimulus. You've got
both, frankly. So, that's the reason why
there's strength. Yields down this
morning, down five on twos, the two-year
389. Under [music] Savannah this
morning, an insult to the Federal
Reserve.
It's highly unusual what Jerom Powell
did. This is a a violation of all
Federal Reserve norms and it is an
insult to Kevin Warsh, Mickey Bowman,
and Chris Waller
to think that these other Republican
nominees do not care about the
institution of the Fed and that he alone
can be you know, maintain the integrity
of the Fed. So, here's the latest this
morning. President Trump criticizing Jay
Powell's decision to remain at the
Central Bank after his term as chair
ends, claiming he wants to stay quote
because he can't get a job anywhere
else. The former Boston Fed President
Eric Rosengren writing, Powell views the
legal actions against himself and others
are intended to influence the vote on
monetary policy. Eric joins us now for
more. Eric, welcome to the program. You
of course are entitled to your opinion.
Do you believe this is is an insult to
other members of the Federal Reserve?
I do not.
I think it is a reflection of legal
attacks on
both the chair and one of the other
governors. And as a result, it was
intended to influence monetary policy
and he's standing up for the
institution. So, I think it's probably
not what he wanted to do. My guess is he
did want to retire. I'm sure his family
would like to start seeing him again.
He's been working very hard for eight
years, but I think he's doing it for the
institution. Eric, with that in mind,
what kind of institution do you think
Kevin Warsh is inheriting here?
I think from the chair new chair's
perspective, it's a challenging
environment. First of all, we've had a
bad inflationary shock with the war in
Iran and we're about to get PCE core
inflation, but I expect both the total
and core to be up a fair bit.
It's going to be over 3% for the core
PCE inflation and that's very high
relative to a 2% inflation target. So,
a chair that a new chair who may have
been hoping to lower rates, I think is
going to face a committee
that clearly is not as interested in
lowering rates at this time because of
the inflationary shock that we've had
and the fact that the Fed's missed its
inflation target for the last five
years. So, I think there a number of
members that are quite concerned about
what's been happening with inflation.
There were three dissents of presidents
for
the language that
is viewed as a bias towards easing.
There was one governor, Governor Myron,
who
would have preferred to ease, but he's
wanted to ease at every single meeting.
So, I think it's a very split committee
and I think that's challenging because
Kevin Warsh needs to get a majority to
get whatever policy he wants through and
I think there's an unusual level of
dissent at this time. Eric, were you
surprised that three members dissented
in order to move to a different type of
language, symmetric
symmetric risk of a rate hike or a rate
cut at another meeting in the future? Or
are you surprised that more people
didn't get on board with a similar type
of move?
Um
a lot of people don't
view dissents as being used on leaving
language unchanged since
you know, it's the language that if they
found acceptable six weeks ago, you have
to think there's a pretty significant
change to dissent over not changing the
language. That being said, the three
dissents against the language, I think
have all highlighted in their speeches
their concern for inflation and I think
it is significant that it's Chair
Powell's last meeting
as chair and as a result, I think
they're signaling to the incoming chair
that as voting members, they're going to
be resistant to a policy that tries to
in their view
ease in a way that isn't consistent with
how the economic outcomes have been
coming out. Eric, what does a
low-profile Governor Powell look like to
you?
I think he comments on data and keeps
his views largely
to himself, but he's still a voting
member. His vote's going to be recorded.
I think he's going to vote the way he
thinks he should vote.
Obviously, it's going to be awkward for
Kevin Warsh if he starts dissenting
along with
a a number of other individuals against
the policy or if Kevin actually can't
get the votes to do the actions that he
wants to take.
So, I I think it is challenging,
but I don't think it's something that is
that difficult to manage if he has a
clear understanding of where the
consensus on the committee is. I mean,
he's one he leads the committee, but he
has to convince people that his views
are the appropriate ones. Eric, I think
that's the important point. Can you keep
the low profile if you're willing to
dissent with the chair?
I mean, I would I think he's hoping he
doesn't have to dissent, but the
recommendations are consistent with the
policies that
the framework document and the committee
has long had. But I think if for
example, there was I don't expect this,
but if there was at the first meeting,
you know, a move to try to dramatically
ease, I think there would be a lot of
people that would be opposed to that and
there might not be the votes including
with the
the former Chair Powell at that point.
But I don't expect Kevin to do something
that dramatic and I think he can count
the votes and I think more than likely
we'll see that
former Chair Powell and the new chair
end up voting together in most instances
if not all instances. We'll see if
that's the case. Eric, thank you, sir.
Appreciate your opinion this morning.
Thank you. The former Boston Fed
President Eric Rosengren on the future
of a low-profile Governor Powell. Which
hopefully means Jay Powell that doesn't
have to dissent against the chair.
That would be very difficult. That would
be considered highly high-profile in a
in a significant way. At what point
though, we were talking about this
yesterday, does Jay Powell [music]
sticking around give Kevin Warsh some
cover in some way, some credibility? At
least for now. At least for now. We'll
see how this breaks. Up next, we'll
catch up with Meera Pandit of JP Morgan
Asset Management, Peter Cardillo of TD
Securities, Jonathan Pingle of UPS. The
ECB rate decision in the next hour, the
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
It's all about the tech sector within
the equity market.
>> We might be a little bit overbought
here. You have very strong sort of
earnings fundamentals underpinning
things.
>> Everyone is looking to make sure that
this growth is still as strong as it has
been.
>> The outlook still is optimistic. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Your
price action and scores look like this.
Equity futures adding to gains up by
0.4% on the S&P, likewise on the Nasdaq.
A turnaround in the commodity market,
crude trimming some of this week's gain.
We're down by 2% on WTI, Brent crude
down by 3.4. Heading into this in just a
moment ECB rate decision some 15 minutes
away. After that, economic data, jobless
claims at 8:30 [music] Eastern time.
We'll see the division between Europe
and the US in some of the data that's
coming out as well as some of the
rhetoric from the central banks. [music]
Right now, you've got a European Central
Banks that are facing off with much more
of a challenge to to a mandate that is
singular. It isn't a dual mandate like
in the United States. On one hand, they
are seeing the weakness come through
their economy. At the same time,
inflation is that much higher as a
result of oil prices. Can they hike into
a situation [music] like this, given the
fact their one mandate is inflation, but
if they had a dual mandate, they would
be screaming something perhaps a bit
different.
>> It's the communication dance. You want
to anchor inflation expectations, but
you really don't want to hike interest
rates.
>> [music]
>> And I get the sense from all these
central banks, particularly in Europe,
the ECB and the Bank of England, that
that's the situation. That's [music] the
tension that they're currently facing.
At a certain point, if you see your
economy deteriorating and unemployment
going up, what do you do? How do you
respond? Do you change your mandate?
Right now, the Bank of England voted
eight to one to hold rates where they
were, but they indicated that they could
be hiking materially. [music]
Does Christine Lagarde say the same
thing? I'm looking for the color of her
scarf to give some indication.
>> what people do? We used to do that with
Trump and ties. I I I think we need to
start a scarf index and brooches. That's
exactly what it is. Okay. Now,
typically, I wouldn't try and mislead
[music] the audience and say,
"Watch the news conference. It's going
to be really interesting." The ECB is
never really very interesting,
particularly the news conference under
under Lagarde.
This one could be slightly different
because of the situation they're in and
the challenges they face in the Middle
East.
>> How does she message this, given the
fact that she has to signal a desire to
anchor inflation expectations, but in
already yields are so high, number one,
and number two, the data coming in
weaker than expected just this morning,
growth coming in weaker than expected,
CPI on the margins coming in in line,
but a little bit higher in certain
areas. [music] It gives a sense of their
conundrum. Europe is struggling. First,
it was Asia, now it's Europe. They're
struggling. We know with jet fuel,
petrol prices are going up. They are
more reliant on [music] all of these
imports from the Middle East. We spoke
to the US Energy Secretary this week
who's in Croatia.
They're dubbing them Trump peace [music]
pipelines, but what they're talking
about is just more LNG going to Europe.
Second shock after Russia's invasion of
Ukraine, [music] now they're dealing
with the Strait of Hormuz being closed.
>> the schedule for this hour. So 8:15,
we'll get NEC B rate decision. After
that news conference wraps [music] up,
it starts at 8:45. We're going to catch
up with this guy, I think an important
conversation on the Federal Reserve and
the backdrop, the economic [music]
backdrop given the threats we see in the
oil market. Kevin Hassett, NEC director,
9:30 Eastern time, [music] an extended
edition of Bloomberg Surveillance right
here on Bloomberg TV.
>> With gasoline prices near the highest
levels that they've been going back a
number of years,
>> [music]
>> and this fear that maybe this will
impede consumer spending, how does he
dovetail both an argument for a Federal
Reserve that's going to cut rates with
an economy that is strong and delivering
above average GDP growth? [music] It is
an uncomfortable message to deliver.
Looking forward to that conversation in
the next hour. This hour we'll catch up
with Meera Pandit of JP Morgan Asset
Management. With oil pulling back from
wartime highs, Pooja Kumra of TD
Securities with a rate decision looming
from the ECB. And Jonathan Pingle of UPS
breaking down the latest round of
economic data. We begin this hour with
stocks edging higher on easing oil
prices. Meera Pandit of JP Morgan Asset
Management writing oil at 110 to 120 for
6 months could have a 4 to 6% hit to
EPS, but that would still leave us with
double-digit earnings growth. Meera
joins us now for more. Meera, good
morning. Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Break it down.
Where's that earnings growth coming from
right now? Look, if there's a war,
nobody told earnings. That is one area
of the economy where we haven't seen a
significant decay in light of
expectations. And even with some of the
expectations that you just highlighted
from our various equity analysts across
JP Morgan, the range is still pointing
to potentially double-digit growth. You
started off the year with expectations
for 15% year-over-year growth. That's
gone up to almost 18, 19%, 18 and 1/2%
So, you've continued to see those upward
revisions. Now, some of that is energy,
a lot of that is tech still being very
resilient around that secular story. So,
we have a lot of buffer here when it
comes to profits, and I think that's why
even as yields rise, you're not
necessarily seeing stocks react.
>> to it. If I strip out a couple of energy
companies, a couple of tech firms,
does it still look as impressive?
It looks slightly less impressive, but
nonetheless, I mean that that that
earnings story is getting very
concentrated, so we do need to be
mindful of that. But it is still
broadened out overall. So, if you look
at the overall mag seven, that in and of
itself is a concentrated story, a lot of
that around semis. You take just one of
those mag seven companies out for this
quarter, and that 22% growth rate falls
to about 6 and 1/2% which is not great
news when we think about the diversity
of earnings growth within the mag seven,
but if you look at the S&P 493, you're
still seeing double digits there. You
strip out any other semi from that 493,
and you're still just right around that
double-digit mark. So, you do see some
broader contributors here in some other
different sectors that are
participating. A lot of them still
linked to AI, but at least now it's not
AI in one or two companies, it's AI kind
of permeating through the system. Is
this backward-looking? Is this ignoring
the oil prices that we see now should
they persist for another couple of
months? Well, a lot of those estimates
that we cited are assuming that oil
prices stay at these elevated levels for
6 months time. So, it does assume a more
extreme scenario, and again, even if we
add a few percentage points to that, the
buffer is so strong. And again, the
secular growth around AI is so strong
and broadening out that it will take
more of a shock. And I think what's been
interesting is this rolling 4 to 6 week
timeline where it seemed like in the
beginning, if we get to April,
mid-April, and the Strait of Hormuz is
still closed, we're going to be in big
trouble. And that timeline keeps getting
pushed out. So, clearly the economy, the
markets, earnings overall are a lot more
resilient to oil shocks than perhaps we
originally expected. I love this
comment, you know, just it needs a
different kind of shock. What other
shock do you need? You have your
inflation shock, you've got your
geopolitical crisis, and now you've got
a potential rate shock. Could some of
the moves that we're seeing in the bond
market serve as perhaps a trigger to
change this picture? If we see rates
move a little bit higher, and if that's
because of some changes around Fed
expectations, that's typically what we
do see unseat the market. If all of a
sudden a hike becomes a very real
probability, then that is going to be a
very much a troubling signal for the
markets, not necessarily just where
yields are, but what that signal's about
monetary policy. But I do still believe
that from a Fed perspective, the next
move is more likely to be a cut than a
hike. We're in a very different
situation than we were in 2022.
Obviously, the starting point from
inflation and the direction of travel is
likely different than it was in terms of
intensity back then, but you also have a
consumer that's a lot weaker. The excess
savings has dried up. The savings rate
itself is depressed. You have a labor
market that's not particularly strong,
wage growth that's moderated. And when
you look at expectations around
inflation, the fear here is does
headline feed into some of these
inflation expectation measures? But you
look at five-year five-year forwards,
you look at five-year break-evens,
they've increased about 15, 20 basis
points since the war broke out. So, a
little bit of pressure there, but
nothing that's that's running away here.
I think ultimately what might happen,
not only here in the US, but probably
overseas if we think about Europe, is
that higher headline inflation because
people are spending more on gas and food
starts to feed into core, and that
actually keeps a bit of a lid on core
because people are cutting from other
areas. But you say it could peak around
4% this summer, inflation. So, how can
they cut in that environment? Well, I
don't think the cut is on the table
necessarily for this year. Maybe at best
December, depending on how things play
out, probably pushed out into 2027. But
if we think about how we get to 4% back
to the twos by the end of the year,
probably the upper twos, well, we have a
couple of different factors here. You
have a bit of the flip side of energy
prices that we do think will subside,
maybe not all the way back down to where
we started the year, but make some
progress there. We're seeing that the
tariffs will likely start to see a bit
of that draining out further, the flip
side there. We've had less immigration,
so less demand to the overall economy.
You continue to see rents soften, so we
could very well be in a position where
that inflation rate starts to come back
into the 2% range, which means the Fed
still has to wait and see, but it puts
them in a better position by the end of
the year to think about cuts for next
year. We spoke to Eric Rosengren moments
ago, former Boston Fed president, about
Chairman Powell staying on as a
governor.
What kind of institution is Kevin Warsh
inheriting here when he takes over in
June?
When you have Chair Powell staying on,
he's certainly very much emphasized the
point about the legal actions against
the Fed and wanting to maintain the
sanctity of that institution. I think
the role he'll actually play on a
day-to-day basis is a little bit more
moving from your high school principal
to your guidance counselor here where
he's going to try to help build some
consensus and um, you know, certainly
really try to protect the institution.
But I do think that look, the the
consensus building is an important
aspect of the Fed, but maybe we had a
little bit too much consensus building
in the earlier part of this decade that
could have helped prevent a policy error
had there been a little bit more debate.
So, I do think that the debate element
that Warsh will infuse into this
committee is probably going to be a good
thing when we think about the two-sided
risks here. Meera, it's good to see you.
Thanks for breaking it down. Great
summary. Meera Pandit there of JP Morgan
Asset Management. I welcome it. We
complained it about it for ages, the
group think of the Federal Reserve, the
lack of group think in the last 24 hours
was pretty welcome. Yeah, I mean, look,
this was exactly what Kevin Warsh said
he wanted. Can we give a victory lap to
Meera Pandit? Moving from principal
>> to the guidance counselor. That is an
analogy that has so many wonderful ways
to play it that I plan on really
sticking with.
>> more time in that office at the Federal
Reserve?
Got any thoughts?
Don't know the answer right now. What,
me? Yeah, who would spend more time in
that office in the guidance counselor?
Oh, a bun The FOMC members.
>> Oh, yeah, I can oh. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm.
Exactly. Okay. All right. Let's get you
an update on stories I swear this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Fanny
Quinn has more. Hey, Fanny. Hey, John.
Thank you. Stellantis shares sliding as
investors look past a return to profits,
questioning the sustainability of an
apparent turnaround. Despite improved
sales, analysts warn the numbers were
padded by price cuts [music] and a
one-time 400 million euro tariff refund.
The US war in Iran has cost 25 billion
dollars so far, according to a senior
Pentagon official. The cost includes
spending on Operation Epic Fury, with
most of it going to munitions as well as
operations, maintenance, and equipment
replacement.
The White House expressing opposition to
a plan by Anthropic to expand access to
its Mitha's AI model to about 70
companies and organizations. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, officials
are concerned the company lacks the
compute power to guarantee security.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Hey, Fanny. Thank you. More from Fanny a
little bit later. Up next, the morning
calls, plus the latest rate decision
from the ECB. [music] We'll break it
down with Ollie Crooke over in
Frankfurt. We'll catch up with Pooja
Kumra of TD Securities in just a moment.
From New York City this morning, good
morning.
Equities in better and better in this
session, highs up by 0.5% on the S&P,
the Nasdaq high by 0.6. [music]
That's the price action. Here's your
morning calls. First up, JP Morgan
downgrading Meta to neutral citing
concerns about the company's massive
[music]
AI spending plans. That means down by
9%. A second call from TD Cowen raising
its price target on Alphabet to 450,
seeing an inflection point in its
monster cloud results. That stock is up
8%. And finally, Bank of America raising
its price target on Amazon anticipating
more optimism on AWS capacity returns.
Their stock is up by 3.5. Yeah, it's
just uh important to note that Amazon's
actually the biggest winner so far this
year up 14% as it turns to more chip
manufacturing and building out some of
its cloud. I remember last earning
season, we were really skeptical of
Amazon because they were announcing this
huge capex spend and they were behind
and people were saying they're behind
and never going to catch up. Well, guess
what? They're catching up and they're
catching up fast and they're beating
more and more than expected. This is
what's insulating this equity market
from some of the drama elsewhere. Let's
get to some of the drama elsewhere.
Another central bank decision this time
from the ECB,
>> [music]
>> the European Central Bank, keeping
interest rates unchanged but some nuance
here and some headlines we need to work
through. So, let's head over to
Frankfurt at the ECB and catch up with
Bloomberg's Ollie Crooks for more. Good
morning, Ollie.
Yeah, good morning, Jonathan. We're
getting as expected the rate decision
from the European Central Bank leaving
rates unchanged. This was never really
regarded as being a live meeting for the
European Central Bank but what we're
getting here from the statement really
saying the downside risks to growth have
intensified. Upside risks to inflation
have anticipated have anticipated and
then they're not pre-committing to any
particular rate path. That is the ECB
using very, very cautious language ahead
of a meeting where it's very hard to
predict where inflation is going um for
the ECB. For the ECB, what they have
done is they have said structurally here
we're looking at three basic scenarios.
There's the good, there's the bad and
there's the ugly. Initially last week we
heard from Christine Lagarde she said
that the situation in terms of inflation
where they think it's going is between
good and bad. From the data we've seen
over the last couple of hours, John,
we've got GDP data out of the Eurozone,
a number of different countries in
addition to CPI data. Just look at what
happened in France. France was supposed
to grow in the first quarter by about 20
basis points. That came in absolutely
flat. It was supposed to get inflation
of 2.3%. We got 2.5%. That is the kind
of stagflationary dynamic within some of
these European economies that the ECB is
going to be very, very cautious about
and we should say where they're coming
at this basically in real time. I mean,
we woke up this morning on the day of
the ECB rate decision with Brent at $126
a barrel. So, what we're going to be
watching very closely a little bit later
is that press conference with with
Christine Lagarde. I suspect she knows
what all the questions are going to be
to her. I doubt that she's got all the
answers. Ollie Crooks, thank you. Over
in Frankfurt, Ollie's going to get in
that news conference for you. That news
conference with President Lagarde starts
in just under 30 minutes time. This is
the central bank dilemma. You can't
offer much guidance. You have to take a
meeting-by-meeting approach because
you've got absolutely no idea what's
going to happen in the Middle East, how
embedded price increases might become or
how to respond when this happens. Upside
risk to inflation, downside risk to
growth and on both sides they've
intensified. And we already are seeing
it in the data. Earlier this morning we
got uh GDP data coming out of Europe. It
came in weaker than expected. We had CPI
3% year-over-year increasing steadily
given the energy shock that you're
experiencing. So, what I'm curious, how
much did A you have some sense of what
instruments they're planning to use?
They said they stand by ready to adjust
all instruments. Are they going to start
to adjust some of their language to
reflect the weakness that potentially
could arise?
>> Let's get to this conversation with
Pooja Kumra of TD Securities joining us
now from London. Pooja, welcome to the
program. The ECB and the Governing
Council believes they're well positioned
to navigate the uncertainty. Do you
think they are?
I don't think any central bank is right
now. Um ECB did give us a proper model
with three scenarios on how are they are
supposed to react. And as we have
previously mentioned, we are sitting
closer to the adverse scenario which
means that there are small second round
impacts. But I think at this stage the
market is so delicate that even if ECB
wants to hike rates, like even a 25
basis points means that markets move 100
basis points. So, I think how she
communicates is going to be very tough
this time. We've seen in recent data,
Pooja, you can see the consumer
expectations over the short term for
inflation have risen. The ECB is
acknowledging that right now. To anchor
inflation at 2% over the medium term,
Pooja, do you think that will require
interest rate hikes?
So, um
as as we said that ECB is is working on
a model and whatever they told us in
terms of the surveys which is the
inflation surveys as well as the PMIs,
they aren't giving us indicators that
they might be second round impacts that
they cannot actually
uh
shy away from. Uh I think for me it's
still that they they would try to make
they need more data, right? We don't
want to act much in terms of just one
data price. I think that will be the
language but for us it's very clear from
whatever we've heard from ECB so far is
that inflation is still primary. They
are ready to actually keep growth
secondary right now. I think they've all
suffered in 2022 so they don't really
want to take the risk.
Pooja, are you surprised that long-term
yields keep going higher even amid
concerns about some sort of suppression
to growth?
Um you know, definitely it is something
that we are really closely watching and
I think that's why if you see after the
March
uh central bank meetings, most of the
central banks try to take a step back
and try to actually soothe the market a
bit. But if you see if you just put the
oil chart and a rates chart, they're
actually moving just with 100%
correlation right now and that's that's
the key thing. If you do not put a lid
to oil prices, it's very hard to put the
lid on the rates unless we get something
more decisive from central banks that
they are able, you know, I don't that
they're able to say that this is just a
supply shock and the prescription is not
just to hike rates. You know, it's not a
demand-driven inflation right now.
Right now we are seeing a bit of a bid
into bonds in particular German bonds.
You are seeing prices go up, yields come
in after rising to some of the highest
levels that we've seen going back to
2011. Pooja, is this enough coming from
the ECB? Just a suggestion of the dual
risks coming up even without moving. Is
this enough for them to just kind of
maintain that optionality for the
foreseeable future?
Um I don't think that will be the case.
I think it as far as we know Lagarde is
concerned, she will still try to say
that they are still waiting for data
points. But for me the key risk is that
yes, we have lots of data points coming
into the June meeting which is one more
consumer survey, one more PMI report and
one more CPI report and also the fact
that this is the time that hawks have
become much more vocal, right? So, even
if today's conference is kept a bit more
neutral and data dependent, we'll all be
conscious as to how different parts,
different groups of the central bank
come in next week just given the fact
that we know that this crisis is not
ending anytime soon. Pooja, what can we
learn from the ECB and how they do dealt
with the other energy shock with
Russia's invasion of Ukraine?
Uh I think at that stage
what we learned from that time was that
they managed to anchor inflation
primarily because the demand shock
wasn't a case in Europe. So, you know,
they just had to tackle the supply part
of it. Uh I think the situation is
exactly the same when it comes to Europe
right now. We did have a big German
fiscal uh spending last year but we can
see the demand has still not moved at
all. So, as long I think in Europe the
lower wage growth, the lower growth,
the lower productivity potential as
compared to US and UK does suggest that
that spiral effect is not going to be
there in Europe. But we also know ECB is
laser-focused on inflation right now.
So, they will be possibly first to act
but they might have to reverse it just
because the real economy is not exactly
the same as compared to 2022.
Pooja, good to hear from you. Thanks for
the reaction to the ECB decision. Pooja
Kumra there of TD Securities. Yields are
lower today across the curve worldwide,
not just the US but Europe as well.
Crude is helping to encourage that move.
Crude is pulling back from wartime highs
that we hit a little bit earlier on this
morning. But also I'd say this as well,
it's always relative to expectations.
It's difficult to out-hawk pretty
hawkish pricing for the ECB and the Bank
of England coming into these two
decisions.
>> Yeah, buy the rumor, sell the news. At
what point are we talking about that
type of reaction? That said, I do think
it's notable that this is enough to calm
market expectations of longer-term
inflation at least on the margins. And
you could say we're getting no signal
whatsoever because it's all driven by
oil prices. So, what are we even talking
about here with central banks?
Ultimately they've lost control and
they're saying as we've lost control
over the situation, we're going to step
back and we're in a position to do so.
And right now you're not seeing
inflation expectations run away over the
long term for now. At what point does
that change given the fact that in some
places the strength in the economy is
enough to keep some of the inflationary
pressure.
>> we've said it a thousand different ways
already this morning. First and
foremost, they want to anchor inflation
expectations. That's their job. You can
sense the reluctance to actually hike
interest rates at these institutions. As
for the other headlines, I've got to get
to this from Meta. Meta's spending a lot
of money. That's not news, you know
that. This is the news. Six-part bond
offering from Meta. They kicked in that
debt sale off this morning and we know
what they're looking to raise. They're
looking to raise as much as $25 billion
from that bond sale. They are not alone.
And this is why people have said you can
throw anything at this market and it
will just take it. I'm looking right now
at investment grade bond spreads, the
extra yield over benchmark rates that
people demand to own investment grade
debt. It is 80 basis points. It is less
than 1%. It has gone down through this
even with a bonanza of debt sales not
only from corporates but also from
governments and even amid all the
concerns with respect to oil prices. So,
you look at this and you start wondering
is there going to start being pushed
back by investors to capex plans that
are filling the holes that are made by
inflation and potentially concerns about
what the business model really looks
like going forward.
>> Which market? Which investors? Cuz right
now in the bond markets, to your point,
we've seen great demand for these debt
offerings whenever they come from these
big companies. For the equity market,
not impressed this morning. Meta down by
close to 9%, the smallest bounce off the
low this morning.
>> Yeah, and not necessarily impressed with
the fact that they're increasing CapEx
without a real plan of exactly how
they're going to use it. At this point,
does this continue to be a repeat of
what we saw late last year, although
just for Meta while the likes of
Alphabet continues to do really well.
>> Geopolitics really hitting Meta on two
fronts. The components you talked about
earlier, but also the fact that some of
their subscriber growth and
advertisement has been hit with what's
going on when it comes to Russia and
Iran they talked about yesterday. So,
tough spot.
>> Economic data is just around the corner.
That data drops in about 5 minutes time.
The news conference with ECB President
Christine Lagarde coming up in about 20
minutes time. Then 1 hour from now, got
to repeat this program in no NEC
Director Kevin Hassett joining us on an
extended edition of Bloomberg
Surveillance to accommodate that
conversation following quite the
announcement from Chairman Powell
yesterday in the news conference. The
chairman is heading to the exit. As the
chairman, he's sticking around as a
governor. [music] Controversial move
from the Fed chair. We'll get the
reaction from the White House a little
bit later this morning. Up next, the
data and reaction with Jonathan Pingle
of UBS.
Economic data just seconds away. The
price action shaping up as follows. 60
minutes away from the opening about the
cash open just around the corner. Equity
futures near session highs up by 0.6%
[music] on the S&P, on the Nasdaq 100 up
by 0.8.
Crude pulling back by 3% on Brent to 114
[music] unlocking this move in the bond
market. Yields down by five basis points
on twos 389. All of that just on the
margin helping to support risk appetite
when things were getting a little bit
shaky earlier on this morning. Economic
data just crossing the Bloomberg Break
it down and cross over to Mike McKee for
more. Good morning, Mike. Good morning,
John. It's dropping in fits and starts,
but we've got a lot of numbers to talk
about. Let's start with the inflation
outlook. The inflation side of the Fed's
mandate and that is the PCE price index
for the month of March up 7/10
percent. That is almost double the 4/10
the month before and it is what was
expected. The core on a month-over-month
basis up 3/10 as expected. down just a
little bit. But that puts our numbers
exactly where Jay Powell said they would
be. Index for
prices year-over-year 3 and 1/2% and for
the core 3.2%. Significantly far away
from the Fed's 2% target. Now, as part
of that report, we also get income and
spending. Incomes up 6/10 of 8%. I'll
get the breakdown where that comes from
for you a little bit later. Personal
spending up 9/10 as expected. Consumers
hanging in there a little bit. All of
this feeds into the GDP report. GDP for
the first quarter. This is the first
report for the first quarter up 2%. It
was a 1/2% gain in the fourth quarter of
last year. The 2% comes in lower than
the 2.3% that had been expected.
Personal consumption stronger though
1.6% 1.4% was expected. The employment
cost index is a little stronger up 9/10
of 8% compared to 7/10 the prior quarter
and 8/10 for the expectation. We'll get
a breakdown on that for you in just a
second whether that's wages or
or the sort of benefits and insurance.
And then finally, we'll go to the
employment side of the Fed's mandate.
189,000
is the jobless claims number.
It's sort of ridiculously low here.
215,000 was the
number of for the prior week. On a
continuing basis, 1,785,000
down from 1,808,000.
So, a lot of numbers out there to
digest. I'll look at some of the details
of those, John, but we'll see what the
markets think of all of this. You take
some time, Michael. Come back to you in
just a moment. Equity futures, just your
update, was near session highs. Just off
those levels. Still positive by 0.5%.
Yields give up some of the move this
morning down by five to six basis points
at the front end of the curve. Now down
by four to five. Let's break this up and
start with the labor market data. The
argument that we've heard repeatedly
about why you won't see price pressure
take off in this economy is that the
labor market simply isn't strong enough.
Now, that's the consensus view on Wall
Street. Does the data stand up to that
argument pretty well this morning or
not? The ECI came in hotter than
expected. Initial jobless claims, and
maybe I'm looking at something wrong,
came in at the lowest level going back
to the late '60s. I'm going to go
double-check that, but this is how low
the levels are that we're seeing in
terms of initial jobless claims. So, if
you're looking at the fact that the
labor market data on the margins is
coming in hotter than expected, the fact
that jobless claims came in at to quote
Michael McKee, ridiculously low rate,
this does suggest the heat that Neel
Kashkari was talking about. She said
this is a market that is actually
reaccelerating on the heels of some of
this CapEx.
>> Let's get to Jonathan Pingle of UBS.
He's been tracking the numbers as well.
Jonathan, good morning. Morning. Thanks
for I got an email earlier on this week
and it said love the show, but I was
like, oh, here we go. And then it said
Thursday mornings 8:30 every single time
I cringe because you all get excited
about how low jobless claims are. And
then were all these question marks about
how valid that data actually was.
Is that the real deal? 189, does that
tell you much about this labor market
and what's actually happening in this
economy?
Yeah, I mean
It is I mean, I'm not quite sure how to
what what what the witty retort to that
is. There's something about unemployment
insurance that makes it difficult to
actually get a read on whether the
economy and the labor market is weak or
not based on weekly jobless claims.
>> Well, I mean, it is only sort of one
side of the it really is only one side
of the equation. I mean, you know, if if
you think about if you if you smooth
through some of the week-to-week
volatility, initial claims are certainly
low. They're running about, you know,
205. I'm going to I'm going to guess
that's the four-week moving average with
this number and it maybe it's closer to
200.
Um but that's basically been bouncing
around there since January. And you
know, if you think about it, we have
had, you know, basically pretty stable
low level layoffs. This isn't that much
different than 2018-2019 layoffs.
Um but the question for the Fed is, you
know,
hiring has come way down. I think though
if we think about continuing claims
coming in, you know, that's a sign that,
you know, maybe hiring is kind of fine
and we're still treading water there as
well. But um
you know, I I think looking at the swath
of this morning's data and thinking
about yesterday, um thinking about the
overnight news about CapEx. I mean, that
really is what the what the really big
driver overarching theme is right now
because, you know, as much as um you
know, consumption real consumption came
in at 1.6, tiny bit ahead. That has
slowed. I mean, if you look at the last
few quarters, real spending has
definitely cooled. You know, real
disposable income has come in, you know,
even with this ECI reading, we're we're
still going to have, you know,
year-over-year gains in nominal wage
growth around 3 and 1/2%. So, you know,
overall, it's still a story of we have
seen the slowdown in the labor market.
It's spilled over in a slower income
growth. But man, the CapEx is off the
charts strong.
It's incredible. The stimulus program
coming from these four tech companies
overnight as we refer to it as. Yeah,
although we keep saying, okay, it's
these companies and these companies
alone. This paints a very different
picture. The fact that personal income
came in at 0.6% versus 0.3% was revised
up for the prior month. The same thing
goes for personal spending. 0.9% It was
revised up from 0.5% the private
previous month. Every single indicator
here with the one exception a very
interesting
exception of GDP coming in better than
expected at a time when it's not just
the hyperscalers and their CapEx. So,
what's behind it and how resilient can
that be in the face of a consumer shock?
Jonathan, the bar for hiking got a
little bit lower. Certainly not the
consensus view that that's the base case
for the year ahead, but the bar for
hiking got a little bit lower.
Do you think we're still
underappreciating the potential
for broad-based price pressure in this
economy and the ability of this labor
market to support it? Well, I think the
I think the economists like me might be,
but I think the markets looks like it's
pretty um
it's pretty ready to price in hikes. I
mean, when we saw the initial reaction
of the to the oil price shock back in
early March, I mean,
market was pretty quick to price in like
near-term hikes, which would be a
remarkably fast pivot for the Fed. And
yesterday, you know, if you step back
and you think about the information we
got, I mean, nine FOMC participants
voted for an easing bias. One voted for
one of the nine voted for actually
easing even though they knew core
inflation was 3.2% and there's upside
risk from energy, right? So, so I don't
think it you know, so so so that was the
committee. The market though still
looked at that and said, okay, we've got
to price in more hikes. And now we've
got we've got a really flat forward
curve for Fed funds futures that it
turns to hikes in early '27. So, the
market's kind of getting there already.
Um you know, I still have cuts in the
forecast. So, it's really like the
economists like me that are actually
still like saying, well, you know, da da
da da da that you know, we think
inflation's going to be fine in the end.
Blah blah blah blah blah. Mike McKee's
got more data for us. Mike, what do you
see? Well, we're looking at the GDP
numbers, which of course came in as a
surprise up just 2% when the forecast
was for
2.3. Right now, it looks like what it is
is inventories and net exports.
Inventories fell by 7 and 1/2 billion
dollars instead of adding. They are down
and trade was down significantly as well
thanks to a big drop in a a
a big increase in imports, which
subtracts. We did get a rebound in
government spending from the back of the
government shutdown in the fourth
quarter, non-defense government spending
was up 20.3%
but the numbers that really matter,
personal consumption 1.6% the lowest
since the first quarter of last year but
business non-residential fixed
investment up 10.4% of that equipment
was 17.2%
higher and intellectual property 13%
higher. So a really significant increase
in business spending offset some of the
consumer weakness. Uh looking at the
employment cost index, it is both wages
and salaries and benefits. Wages and
salaries up 8/10 of a percent which is
higher than uh the 7/10 that we saw in
the fourth quarter. Benefits up 1.2%
and uh that's the strongest in sometime.
Uh last quarter was a 0.8%.
Uh still looking at the rest of the
numbers but I can confirm that what Lisa
told you was correct. It was September
of 1969
>> Wow, so that we last saw jobless claims
this low.
Um
Your explanation is as good as mine. I
guess companies just sitting on their
hands at the moment.
>> Mike McKee, thank you, sir. And of
course back then, very different
population size as well. So that's an
incredibly impressive number at 189.
In some parts of this economy, I stress
some parts, we've got boom conditions
off the back of some of that CapEx. We
have had boom conditions, I would argue,
and that's what's saving this economy
from experiencing other anything other
than strength. The interesting aspect is
is this just a low hire, low fire
situation or are we breaking out right
now? And that I think is what Nela
Richardson was signaling in the fact
that wage growth is as strong as it is.
Are we going to hear people, economists
like Jonathan Pingle, discuss about
productivity and how you're starting to
see that work through in this beneficial
nirvana rather than, you know, computers
taking over the world.
>> John, you get the final word. Slow and
stable, low hire, low fire. Are things
breaking out to the upside? Well, I
think definitely the CapEx looks very
strong. I think you know, Mike was just
talking about in terms of the GDP
report. I mean, we're watching equipment
expanding rise almost 20% at an
annualized rate. This And yet
consumption, you know, 1.6. I mean, that
compares to we were running over 3%
annualized, you know, through '23 and
'24. So, you know, we really have
reoriented this economy towards very
strong CapEx which just by composition
is going to boost productivity growth.
>> Super impressive. Jonathan Pingle there
at UBS. That's the conditions that are
unique to America right now that the
Europeans just do not have going into
this news conference with Christine
Lagarde in 5 minutes' time.
>> If you take a look at the US economic
surprise index versus the European
economic surprise index, they've
diverged to one of the widest points
that you've seen going back many years.
And it is shocking. That is what
Christine Lagarde has to address and the
reason why this market feels a little
bit more imperiled when you go over to
Europe.
>> The data in Europe not so good. Upside
risk to inflation, downside risk to
growth and those risks, courtesy of the
ECB, have intensified. That news
conference just around the corner. Let's
get you an update on news worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief. Vani
Quinn has more. Hey, Vani.
>> Hey, John. Thank [music] you. Recapping
the data we just got then. PCE inflation
data coming in in line with expectations
at plus 0.7% nearly double the rate of
the previous month. Core PCE coming in
at 0.3% also in line with estimates.
>> [music]
>> First quarter GDP up 2%. That was just
under estimates but a big rise from the
previous quarter. And initial jobless
claims coming in historically low at
189,000.
That's a good sign, obviously, for the
labor markets.
A pair of central bank rate decisions
this morning. Both Bank of England and
the ECB holding rate steady. ECB
officials signaling they need more time
to weigh the economic impact of the Iran
war. The Bank of England signaling it
could raise rates if energy disruptions
[music] continue.
Another check on tech earnings. Shares
of Qualcomm higher in pre-market
trading. The chipmaker reporting growth
in the data center market and predicting
that the China phone industry would
bounce back. Qualcomm also sharing that
a top hyperscaler is on track to start
using Qualcomm components later this
year. That is your Bloomberg Brief,
John. Hey, Vani. Thank you. Thanks for
this morning. Up next on the program,
the ECB President Christine Lagarde, her
news conference following the latest
decision from the ECB. And then later,
we'll catch up with the National
Economic Council Director Kevin Hassett
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
The administration is encouraging more
CapEx and the good news is is that the
market is rewarding more CapEx. [music]
More investment, less consumption to get
higher productivity. I think it's really
important that companies continue to
[music] allocate capital in a way that
leads to higher productivity. CapEx
boom, you see it in the data. That was
Mike Wilson of Morgan [music] Stanley.
You see it in the price action, too. New
session highs on the S&P 500 up by 0.5%.
High by 0.6
on the Nasdaq. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers. The open
about 44 away. Yohara has more. Hey,
Yohara. Hi, John. We start with Ford.
Those shares are falling up 4 and 1/4%
in the pre-market as the carmaker says
that rising commodity costs tied to the
war are expected to hit profits by about
$2 billion. That overshadowing [music] a
beat and a raise at the carmaker but
even that has analysts skeptical who say
that was helped by a one-time tariff
[music] benefit. Turning to Caterpillar,
those shares are up in the pre-market up
6 and 1/2% after a massive beat as this
legacy [music] industrial name known for
bulldozers becomes part of the AI
revolution. It's seeing [music] massive
demand for its turbines and its
generators all used to power AI data
centers. And we end on Royal Caribbean.
Those shares also rising nearly 7%
[music] in the pre-market even as
guidance fell short due to rising fuel
costs but investors clinging onto this.
Royal saying that after a dip in March
and April, bookings have recovered and
[music] are running ahead of last year,
John. Yohara, thank you. Thanks for the
update ahead of the cash open. Plenty of
stock movers out there, some big single
name stories. In just a moment, the ECB
conference, the news conference kicking
off with Christine Lagarde, the ECB
President in just a second. [music]
We'll head over to that in a minute. The
outlook for policy is changing even at
the Federal Reserve. BNP Paribas just
moments ago, we expect the Fed to stay
on hold into '27. Saw the same headline
coming from Mike Gapen of Morgan Stanley
overnight.
>> You said something so interesting. We
started the year expecting the ECB would
have to hike rates because of the oil
shock and that the US would remain on
hold. It's flipping. [music] This is the
See, your question is the rhetoric
completely different from the Central
Bank of Europe. We need to talk about
two things here. On the one side, we
need to talk about rate pricing. The
pricing in the market already which, of
course, is always paramount. This market
was priced pretty aggressively for rate
hikes through this year for both the ECB
and the Bank of England. Difficult to
really meet those expectations at
today's meeting. But in isolation,
you've got central banks that are far
more open to raising interest rates now
both across the Federal Reserve, the
Bank of England, and the European
Central Bank compared to where they were
only several months ago. We're also
getting some signs of intervention as
well which we need to talk about. Over
at the Bank of Japan, this headline
crossing just moments ago that Japan,
according to Nikkei, conducted a yen
buying operation. You will have seen the
headlines from the finance ministry
overnight saying that we were close,
threatening to make such a move, a final
warning, if you will, to the FX market.
Pretty much in their own words,
confirmation from Nikkei just moments
ago that Japan did conduct a yen buying
operation.
>> This came after the yen reached its
weakest point versus the dollar going
back to late last year. It comes along
mounting pressure of how they're going
to support the economy given the dual
pressures of both higher oil prices and
inflation but also potentially weaker
growth. If you're just tuning in,
welcome to the program. The opening bell
is just seconds away. This is an
especial extended edition of Bloomberg
Surveillance going into the cash open.
Haven't done this for a while. This is
nice. Equity futures firmer on the S&P
500 by 0.5%. On the Nasdaq, high by 0.7.
A little bounce on the Russell up by
1/10 of 1%. Encouraged by this move in
crude. Crude, Brent, and WTI backing
away from wartime highs. 113 on Brent,
[music] 104 on WTI. And check out what
this does to the bond market. Just helps
to unlock this move in fixed income.
Yields lower across the curve. Twos down
by six basis points. 10s bramo down by
five.
>> This comes after we saw the highest
levels and particularly at the 30-year
the 30-year yield that we've seen in a
long time at the 5% level. At what point
does that act as a constraint? And this
has been the conundrum. On one hand, you
could say oil prices act as a
constraint. On the other hand, we see
the CapEx plans and we see better than
expected US economic data and it points
to the resilience in the underlying
economy that can allow some of this
inflation to persist. At what point does
the Fed respond? We've seen the Fed get
more hawkish as the ECB potentially
backs away from some of the rate hikes
priced in.
>> Let's talk about this economy. US
economic growth accelerating at the
start of the year fueled by solid
business and consumer demand insulating
this economy from heightened
geopolitical risk as the Fed remains
very much on the sidelines. Joining us
now to discuss is the National Economic
Council Director Kevin Hassett. Kevin,
welcome back to the program, sir. Always
good to catch up. We'll talk about this
economy in just a moment. I think we
need to follow on from the Federal
Reserve and the news conference with
Chairman Powell just yesterday. Stepping
aside as the Fed chair but staying on as
a governor. Kevin, was anyone in the
administration given a heads-up ahead of
time before you heard that announcement?
You know, I think communications with
the Federal Reserve and the
administration are still open when there
are policy concerns but I can't really
discuss that. I can say that
I'm disappointed in in what Jay said but
I'm going to sort of stay out of it as
we await just a couple weeks uh Kevin
Warsh's confirmation. I think when Kevin
gets in there uh it's going to really be
a sea change at the Fed that we're all
looking forward to. [music] Kevin, in
the meantime, the president has
articulated his disappointment like you
just have. Previously, the president
suggested that if the chairman stayed on
beyond his time, not sure what he meant
specifically by beyond his time, that he
would fire him. Is the president
intervening certain options to
intervene?
You you know, I think that in the end uh
our hope is that Chairman Powell uh
understands that the Justice Department
has stood down. Uh they've just asked
the Inspector General at the Fed to look
into this, which is something the
Inspector General was probably doing
anyway. And so that I think that it's
time to de-escalate and move on. Kevin,
do you think the president has
sufficiently de-escalated to allow him
to move on?
You well, I you know, he he doesn't
think so and and I think that in the end
um he'll study the matter and we hope he
comes around. The Treasury Secretary has
said it's an insult to the other
Republican nominees on the board, the
likes of Governor Waller, Mickey Bowman,
people that you and I know fairly well.
Do you believe it's also an insult and
does it complicate the way this
particular institution will operate in
the months and meetings to come?
Again, I don't want to uh start uh
getting too much into having the White
House argue with the Fed right now while
we're waiting uh Kevin Warsh's
confirmation, which looks like it's a
lock to me. Uh the bottom line is that
uh Kevin Warsh is going to go in there,
he's going to be new leadership, he's
going to be fresh leadership, and we
fully expect that that's going to help
everybody see how important the
independence of the Fed is. Now, uh as a
logical matter, if you just sort of say,
"Hey, we'd like the IG to look into
something." the IG is the Federal
Reserve's Inspector General. And so it's
completely respectful of the
independence of the Fed. We do respect
the independence of the Fed and and I
think that the best way to show that
it's not a partisan organization is to
move on. There has been a pretty
aggressive push to reduce interest
rates. At the same time, this Federal
Reserve is shifting towards articulating
a more symmetrical reaction function.
Not there yet, but getting closer to it,
Kevin. Supporting that is the economic
data from earlier on this morning. Do
you think there is space just to wait to
see, to work out how things turn out
before thinking about reducing interest
rates?
Right. Well, well, first of all, like
let's let's talk about the economic data
for a second because it was just kind of
a a whole bunch of blockbuster numbers.
The 2% number actually, you know, for
me, being capital spending guy, used to
be the capital spending guy at the Fed
when I was a young economist, that the
thing that was amazing, as you know, is
as you highlighted, the capital spending
boom. And uh one of the things that sort
of dragged it down from a a really high
number was that the quality of the
imports has skyrocketed. And so almost
half of the imports were capital goods,
which were coming in to build factories
in the US. Typically in the past, you
know, our imports are things like
consumer goods that are perishable. And
and so so the bottom line is that it's
really strong data. We got initial
claims the lowest they've been since the
1960s. We got government employment the
lowest it's been since the Second World
War. We've got all these positive
movements in terms of fiscal
responsibility and economic growth
moving forward. And so then but we do
have this uh temporary disruption with
energy markets, which is very serious.
As you mentioned, the energy prices are
high, gasoline prices are high. But, you
know, my read of the academic literature
on what you do when you have an oil
shock like this is not that you raise
rates into it, uh especially given how I
think we're highly confident that this
is going to be a temporary disruption.
Futures markets agree with that as well.
And so I think it would be a policy
error for you know, this ECB or or the
Fed to hike rates into a temporary spike
in in energy prices. And their own uh
you know, economic studies sort of
suggest this is true because if you look
at it, if you what they want to do is
make sure that future inflation goes
back towards the target. The best
forecast of future inflation is not top
line inflation, but core inflation. And
core inflation in the last CPI number
was fine. The PCs kind of crept up a
little bit, but it but it doesn't tell
the story of the top line. And the top
line is the kind of thing that I think
someone could overreact to. It might not
be appropriate, Kevin, to have a rate
hike at this point, but do you agree
with your colleague Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent, who came out and said it
might be appropriate to stay on hold for
a while as as this uh does progress and
works itself out.
Again, I I am highly confident that the
productivity boom is going to keep uh
core prices under control. And that the
you know, my old friend Alan Greenspan
Greenspan in the '90s saw that uh
because of the computer revolution that
we could have high growth and there
wasn't a Phillips curve kind of thing
that you needed to respond to. As he let
us have four or five of the best uh
economic years that we've seen in my
lifetime. And I think that we have that
opportunity again and it would be a
shame if we squandered it. So you think
that it is appropriate to currently cut
rates despite the increasing concern by
some of the Fed members that we are
entering a potentially inflationary
moment. Do you think it's inappropriate
to go to something more of a symmetric
type of approach? Well, they they've
been sort of saying we're leaning
towards cutting and then there was some
dispute about what's going to happen at
the next meeting. But but I think that
uh getting interest rates down uh could
really supercharge the economy from
where we are, but not be super
inflationary. And so so you saw that the
weak spot the weak spot in the GDP
report was residential investment, which
was down 8%. Residential investment is
kind of the most interest sensitive
thing there is. And I think that that
Fed policy has a chance of moving the
yield curve in a way that it could
really help home buyers. And and one of
the things that I remember from the '90s
is that when we want to have sort of low
inflation, high growth, then one of the
things that happens is you get a lot of
construction, residential construction.
And when you have residential
construction, it has a big positive
effect on GDP because you have like an
empty house that has to get filled with
a washer, dryer, and a TV, and carpet,
and furniture, and everything else. And
that's much different than if you have
like an old house where you're moving
from one old house to another. And so
new construction is really the thing
that could lift this to 4 or 5% growth
that is being held back by high interest
rates. What's the pathway to get there
given the fact that longer and the
longer term yield curve is seeing some
of the highest rates that it has this
cycle, 5% in the 30-year yesterday for
the first time in a while. And frankly,
a a lot of people in the market think
that if the interest rate were cut at
the front end, that would only
exacerbate the creep higher in yields at
the long end. How do you see that?
Yeah, I mean, there are times when
that's true, but not a time when we're
in the middle of a a huge positive
supply shock. And so I think a little
bit of movement um and uh Kevin Warsh,
uh hopefully soon to be Chairman Warsh,
has described uh how one can do that and
maybe uh play with the balance sheet a
little bit at the same time
and move things in a direction that uh
helps uh America's uh homeowners. And uh
I I think that if we could get that last
little bit of the economy going on uh
all cylinders, then we'd really really
be back very close to talking about the
golden days. Kevin, we have triple-digit
crude this morning, WTI much higher. And
actually, what you're seeing across
America, especially in a place like
California, they've actually breached $6
a gallon when it comes to gasoline. I
know the White House has some measures,
they've extended the Jones Act waiver,
but what else are you thinking about?
Well, we've already done a a whole bunch
of things, including uh you know,
basically uh opening up the the drilling
that was offshore drilling in California
that was shut down by the state. And and
that's actually, you know, alive and
pumping out barrels. Uh the bottom line
is that that we're very convinced that
this is, you know, a suicidal uh Iranian
regime that was set on really big
disruptive things in the region that
would be uh perhaps permanently harmful.
And that when we had, you know, them
signaling their negotiations that they
were just about ready to have 11 nuclear
bombs, then the president decided to
take action to defend all
the entire Earth for for goodness' sake.
And and so right now uh the thing that I
look at it as in terms of the economic
effects of the war is how difficult it
is for uh Iranians right now. Um as if
the government doesn't care about them
at all. And and so they're having a
hyperinflation, uh they're running out
of food, uh they don't have any
distilled product to drive around in
their cars, they're shutting down
businesses, even the uh the Persian rug
uh dealers are shutting down. Um it's
time for that government to just see
that they shouldn't uh aspire to have a
nuclear weapon. And if they just give
that up, uh then we can go back to
having normal relations, one could hope.
Right, but what could this government do
to shield Americans from higher gasoline
prices? Are things like an export ban on
the table?
No. What we've done is we we've as you
know, we've done the Jones Act, we've uh
opened up drilling in California, we've
uh you know, pursued uh like uh changing
the ethanol standard so that the corn
ethanol can be used more in the summer.
Uh we've we've taken every single step
uh that we can. And uh we understand
that that
you know, it would have been a lot worse
if we hadn't done that. But the fact is
that our expectation is that things are
going to get better very very quickly uh
if we could just get the Iranians to to
like finish the negotiations and and
realize that it's in the interest of
their own people uh to stop things that
could turn into, you know, serious
hunger events and so on.
>> Kevin, unfortunately, and you and I uh
probably in agreement here,
unfortunately, they've got a track
record of doing a lot of things that
aren't in the interest of their own
people. In the meantime, there seems to
be a preference to maintain the blockade
and put the squeeze on them. How close
are we to them breaching storage
capacity, so to speak? What's our
understanding of that? Do we have a
decent gauge of where things are at
inside the country?
You know, like like there it's a
well-to-well thing. Uh but the basic
idea is that if you shut down a well,
then the pressure can build and then
the, you know, oil can kind of squirt
everywhere. And then when you open the
well up again, it you get a lot less oil
out of the well. That's the sort of
theory of what could happen.
And it's certainly possible because
they're running out of storage that
they're going to have to shut in wells.
The one thing I can say is that their
production went from 5 million barrels a
day to 1 million barrels a day because
of President Trump's
you know policies in the previous term
when he really put in tough sanctions on
Iran to try to stop the nuclear program.
And after Joe Biden came in, he just
stopped the sanctions and the energy
production went back up to 5 million
barrels a day over a couple of years.
And so the Iranians you know
they had they took them a couple of
years to get things fixed probably with
new wells and so on because it can harm
wells. But then we have an experience of
them being shut almost down to nothing
and then getting back up.
Kevin a partner stepping up to help.
We're just hearing from the president
here out on social media. So I sure this
is the first time you're hearing of it.
I'll read it for you. The Chancellor of
Germany should spend more time on ending
the war with Russia and Ukraine and
fixing his broken country especially
immigration and energy and less time on
interfering with those that are getting
rid of the Iranian nuclear threat
thereby making the world including
Germany a safer place. I believe the
German Chancellor early this week
suggested that the president was being
humiliated by the Iranians. Just what is
the relationship like Kevin with our
European partners at the moment?
Oh you know I think that the European
partners are feeling stressed because
their very unwise energy policies have
exposed them much more to energy shocks
from the Middle East. And it looks like
the German Chancellor is losing his cool
a little bit and I would suggest that
you know he take a deep breath and
recognize that the best way for Europe
to get its economy back on track is to
you know help us resolve this problem
and then also examine their own policies
which are so anti-free market that their
economies are you know happy when they
get 1% growth. I think Germany is a
great country. I I lived there for a
time and I think there's a heck of a lot
of potential for that country but they
sure aren't achieving it right now and
it's not just because of oil. Kevin
Hassett we appreciate your time sir.
Thanks for making time for us this
morning. Thank you very much as always.
The NEC director Kevin Hassett there on
the economy and the situation with the
Federal Reserve. Just a note on the
Federal Reserve
resisting the temptation to turn up the
heat
and have a back and forth with the
chairman of the Federal Reserve J
Powell. They clearly want to open the
door for him to head to the exit. They
also want confirmation a clean
confirmation of Kevin Warsh to get him
in before anything else. So right now
the White House is putting a clamp down
on any kind of heating tip-for-tat
between them and Jerome Powell hoping
that it will resolve itself in the
intermediary. Really interesting though.
That is the time frame. They want the
confirmation first and then maybe the
gloves come off.
>> Interesting note to finish the
conversation on the difference between
Europe and the United States right now.
Of course they feel the squeeze over in
Europe. Of course they're stressed. They
have GDP running close to zero
and it could be zero if this continues.
You can see the stress and the tension
in the ECB news conference over the last
60 minutes or so. There is a capex boom
driving this equity market and
insulating this economy stateside that
others just don't have. Europe just
doesn't have.
>> you think about Europe versus the US and
this is the reason why we're seeing
better economic performance and
surprises in the US than Europe. Not
only does it have the capex boom of
technology, it's also an oil producer
and actually almost a net oil exporter
for the first time. Well Europe has
neither right? It doesn't have the tech
boom and it doesn't have the energy
reserves in its own place. So how do you
then get yourself above this? This is
what we heard Christine Lagarde dealing
with and this is the reason why you're
seeing the economic data diverge.
>> Europe is struggling which is why the
president also wants Europe to step up
to join them when it comes to trying to
re-open the Strait of Hormuz. The Wall
Street Journal overnight was talking
about how a diplomatic cable was sent
from the State Department to embassies
telling their officials to press these
foreign governments to help them in a
maritime freedom construct construct to
try to reopen up the Strait of Hormuz
but to Lisa's point we are a net energy
exporter. We will feel some of it but
we're much more insulated. Europe is
not.
>> Fun morning. I'm not suggesting we do
this every morning but fun morning
right? I think it was great. I mean
honestly it's been such an active
interesting week. I could just stay here
the rest of the day. One more day to go
Bremo. One more day. Keep it together.
Okay. Oh I am. I'm doing great. Coming
up tomorrow Ajay Rajadhyaksha of
Barclays, Tom Forte of Maxim Group,
Victoria Fernandez across mark and the
NASA administrator
Jared Isaacman looking forward to that
conversation from New York City. Thank
you very much for choosing Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> This was Bloomberg Surveillance.